, the purpose of .S. 3(3) is only to say that this charge shall be qualified, demanded of the 1944 Act. This sub- section cannot be read as having the effect of incorporating the substantive definition of "manufacture" in the 1944 Act particularly when s. 2 chose to incorporate only the definition of the specified goods as contained in the 1944 Act.
iii Even if the language of S. 3( 3 ) is construed more liberaly, it will be effective with only to incorporate the definitions contained in the 1944 Act as on the date of commencement of the 1957 Act but not its subsequent legislative expansions.
In my opinion. there is no warrant or justification for giving such a narrow interpretation to the wide language of s. 3 of the 1957 Act. Learned counsel for the petitioner, in advancing this argument, apparently has in mind the famous dictum of Lord Dunedin in Whitney v. Inland Revenue Commissioners, [1927] A.C7 echoed in several decisions of this Court and of the various High Courts in India:
PG NO 818 "Now, there are three stages in the imposition of a tax:
there is the declaration of liability, that is the part of the statute which determines what persons in respect of what property are liable. Next, there is the assessment.
Liability does not depend on assessment. That, ex hypothesi, has already been fixed. But assessment particularizes the exact sum which a person liable has to pay. Lastly come the methods of recovery, if the person taxed does not voluntarily pay." The argument, founded on the above figurative analysis, seeks to equate the expressions "levy and collection" used in s. 3(3) with the stages of assessment and collection concerned with the procedure for quantification and recovery of a duty that has already been imposed. The first stage of "charge", according to counsel, has already been dealt with in the first sub-section of s. 3, which has fastened a charge on the production of manufacture of specified goods.
The third sub-section, it is said, only relates to the quantification or recovery of the charge imposed under s.
3(1) . I do not see any force in this argument.
In the first place, even s. 3(1) which, according to the counsel, is the charging section, uses the same words "levied and collected. These are the same as the words used in Article 265 of the Constitution, which have been interpreted as comprehending the entire process of taxation commencing from the imposition of the tax by enacting a statute to the actual taking away of money from the pocket of a citizen. They take in every stage in the entire process of taxation. The words "levied" is a wide and generic expression. One can say with as much appropriateness that the Income tax Act levies a tax on income as that the the Income Tax Officer levies the tax in accordance with the provisions of the Act. It is an expression of wide import and takes in all the stages of charge, quantification and recovery of duty, though in certain contexts it may have a restricted meaning. In the context of sub-section (1) the word "levied" admittedly means "charged " as well as "assessed. The words "levy and collection' in sub-section (3) cannot be construed differently from the words levied and collected used in sub-section (1). S. 3(3), therefore, also covers the entire gomut of s. 3 (1) and cannot be construed as becoming operative at a somewhat later stage.
Its operation cannot be excluded in determining the scope of the charge.
PG NO 819 In this context, reference has to be made to a decision of this Court which had to consider a provision, almost identical with S. 3(3) of the 1957 Act, appearing in the Finance Act 1965, in a somewhat indirect manner, as the decision contains some observations, which, at first sight, appear to support the line of argument of the petitioner herein. Such a provision has been annually repeated in all Finance Acts--vide, the Finance Act from 1963 to 1983--and imposes what has been described as "special", "regular" or "auxiliary" duties of excise and customs. The decision I am referring to is that of this Court in Associated Cement Co.
Ltd. v. Director of Inspection, [[1985] 2 SCC 7] 19\. This decision was really concerned with s. 280 ZD of the Income Tax Act, 1961, which in turn called for a reference to s. 80 of the Finance Act, 1965 which is in the following terms:
"(I) When goods of the description mentioned in this section chargeable with a duty of excise under the Central Excises Act are assessed to duty, there a special duty of excise equal to 10 per cent of the total amount so chargeable on such goods;
(b) as respects (certain other) goods , a special duty of excise equal to 20 per cent : and (c) as respects (certain other) goods , a special duty of excise equal to 33- 1/3 per cent 
(2) xxx xxx (3) The duties of excise referred to in sub-section ( l) chargeable on such goods under the Central Excise Act or any other law for the time being in force 
(4) The provisions of the Central Excises Act and the rules thereunder. including those relating to refunds and exemptions from duty, shall. so far as may be. apply in relation to the levy and collection of the duty of excise leviable under this section in respect of any goods as they apply in relation to the levy and collection of the duties of excise on such goods under that Act or rules." PG NO 820 Section 280 ZD of the Income Tax Act, 1961 enabled an assessee, in certain circumstances, to obtain a "tax credit" certificate in respect of a percentage of the amount of "duty of excise payable by him." "Duty of excise" was defined by the section to mean "the duty of excise leviable under the Central Excises & Salt Act". The question was whether the tax credit could also be given in respect of the amount of the special duty of excise levied and collected under the Finance Act. This Court held that, obviously, the special duty levied under s. 80 could not be regarded as having been levied under the Central Excise Act. It said:
"It is true that the expression 'leviable' is an expression of wide import and includes stages of quantification and recovery of the duty but in the context in which that expression has been used in clause (b) of sub- section (6) of s. 280 ZD, it is clear that it has been used in the sense of chargeability to duty. In other words, the duty of excise in respect whereof tax credit is available would be in respect of such duty of excise as is chargeable under the Excise Act and clearly the Special excise duty in respect whereof additional tax credit is sought by the appellant company is not chargeable under the Excise Act but chargeable under the Excise Act." Having said this, the Court added:
"'Sub-clauses  and (4) of s. 8() of the Finance Act on which reliance has been placed by counsel for the appellant company in terms refers to the procedural aspect such as the qualification and collection of the special duty and simply because the qualification and collection of the special duty under the Finance Act is to he done in accordance with the provisions of the Excise Act such duty does not become leviable that is to say chargeable, under the Excise Act." The above observations no doubt lend some support to the contention of the petitioner, as the wording of s. 80(4) of the 1965 Finance Act is identical with that of s. 3(3) and has been interpreted as attracting only the procedural aspect of the Central Excise Act. But in my opinion, while that may have been true of s. 80(4) of the Finance Act, 1965, it will not be correct to draw the same conclusion about the 1957 Act. For, s. 80(1) of the Finance Act, 1965 fully exhausted the aspect of charge of the special duty. It PG NO 821 specified the goods to be taxed and also laid down that the special duty was to be a percentage of the normal excise duty chargeable on those goods. Nothing else remained except the quantification and the collection. But here the position is different. There are three ingredients of the charging provision viz. s. 3(1). The additional duties are charged (a) on manufacture, storage of production (b) of certain named goods (c) at the rates specified in the first schedule. Of these, only aspect (b) finds mention in the t957 Act but in relation to the definitions contained in the 1944 Act. Aspect (c), clearly is not complete without a reference to the main Act. For, turning to the First Schedule of the Act, originally it specified rates on the basis of length, weight or number on all items except "cigarettes" where the duty was to be ad valorem. The Amendment Act, No. 6 of 1980, substituted the rate per metre specified under the original schedule in respect of the items with which we are concerned to ad valorem rates. Now the assessable value is to be determined on the basis of which the special duty will have to be worked out cannot be found out from the 1957 Act which contains no definition or indication in this regard. The statute cannot be worked atleast in respect of goods where an ad valorem rate is prescribed unless s. 3(l) is read with s. 3(3 ) and the definition of "assessable value" in s. 14 of the 1944 Act is read with the Finance Act. In like manner, I think. the content of aspect (a) cannot be understood differently from, or independently of, the definition in the main enanctment.
Having regard to the nature and content of the levy indicated in s 3(1), it is obvious that s. 3(3) has to have the effect of attracting not only the purely procedural and machinery provisions of the 1944 Act but also some of its charging provisions. It is, therefore difficult to consider section 3(1) of the 1(1957 Act--in contrast to the Finance Act of 1965---As covering the entire ambit of the charge imposed. In short, the language of s. (3) has to he given a wider meaning than under the Finance Act, 1985. I have referred to the fact that a provision similar to that in s.
80 of the Finance Act, 1965 is also found in other Finance Acts. On perusal of these provisions, it will be found that a like position exists there also. These provisions are all self-contained and completely specify the scope of the charge either as a percentage of the excise duty normally chargeable under the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 or as a percentage of the 'assessable value determined under s. 4 of the 1944 Act.' This, in my view, is a very important reason why the observations in the Associated Cement Co.'s case (supra) cannot be of application in the context of the 1957 Act.
A question has been raised as to why, if it were the intention of the Legislature to take in all the provisions PG NO 822 including definitions from the 1944 Act, it was considered necessary to make a specific reference to the definitions of the various goods on which additional duty was being imposed as contained in the schedule to the 1944 Act. Counsel says that this enactment of specific definitions drawn from the 1944 Act should lead to an inference that no other definitions from that Act were intended to be incorporated in the 1957 Act. A careful examination will, however. show that this is not the effect. Actually, s. 2 is not much of a 'definition' section. Cl. (a) is not strictly necessary and cl. (b) is only intended to clarify that the proceeds of the duties are not be distributed to Union Territories. So far as clause (c) is concerned, it is necessary to make a reference to s. 7 of the Act, which reads thus:
"7. It is hereby declared that the following goods, namely, subject, tobacco, cotton fabrics, rayon or artificial fabrics and woolen fabrics, are of special importance in inter-state trade of commerce and every sales tax law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes or authorises the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of the declared goods, he subject, as from the 1st day of April, 1958, to the restrictions and conditions specified in s. 15 of the [Central Sales Tax Act, 1956]." The effect of this provision, as held in M/s Mahendra Pratap Rama Chandra v. Commercial Tax Officer & Others, [AIR 1965 Cal. 203] is that "the contents of s. 15 became a part of section 7 from the moment when s. ', was enacted.'' S. 15 of the Central Sales Act applies to "declared" goods as defined in s. 2(c) and enumerated in s. 14 of that Act as being of special importance in inter-state trade and commerce. S. 14 of the [Central Sales Tax Act, 1956].
enumerates various items of goods among which arc the six items specified in s. 3(1) of the 1957 Act and this list further specifies that they shall have the same meaning as is attached to the respective items in the First Schedule to the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 vide items (ii-a), (vii), (viii), (ix). (x) and (xi). Thus, it was always clear that the specified goods have to be understood in the way they were defined in the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944.
The idea in 1956 was to restrict the powers of the States to levy sales tax in respect of such goods and other goods. In 1958, the idea was conceived of the Centre levying an additional excise duty on these goods and distributing the same to the States subject to the condition specified in Schedule II that such States did not impose any sale or purchase tax on these commodities. Subsequently, perhaps. it was realised that s. 7 served no specific purpose under the Act except that of the definitions which was an aspect PG NO 823 already covered by s. 2(c). In these circumstances, not much significance need be attached to s. 2(c) much less can it be construed as negativing the import of other definitions from the 1944 Act.
The next question that arises for considerion is, whether, even assuming that the terms of s. 3(3) are applicable, its terms are wide enough to take in not merely the provisions of the Central Excises and & Salt Act, 1944 and, in particular its definition clauses, as they stood in 1957 on the date when the 1957 Act came into force but also the amendments effected therein from time to time. The answer to this question depends upon the general principles applicable to what is described as 'referential legislation' of which this is an instance. Legislatures sometimes take a short cut and try to reduce the length of statutes by omitting elaborate provisions where such provisions have already been enacted earlier and can be adopted for the purpose on hand. While, on the one hand, the prolixity of modern statutes and the necessity to have more legislation then one on the same or allied topics render such a course useful and desirable, the attempt to legislate by reference is sometimes everdone and previty is achieved at the expense of lucidity. However, this legislative device is quite well known and the principles applicable to it fairly well settled.
Referential legislation is of two types. One is where an earlier Act or some of its provisions are incorporated by reference into a later Act. In this event, the provisions of the earlier Act or those so incorporated, as they stand in the earlier Act at the time of incorporation, will be read into the later Act. Subsequent changes in thc earlier Act or the incorporated provisions will have to be ignored because, for all practical purposes, the existing provisions of the earlier Act have been re-enacted by such reference into the later one, rendering irrelevant what happens to the earlier statute thereafter. Examples of this can be seen in Secretary of State v. Hindustan Cooperative Insurance Society, AIR 1931 P.C. 149; Solani Ores Ltd. v. State, [[1974] INSC 186]; [AIR 1975 S.C. 17] and Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. v. Union, AIR 1979 S.C.798. On the other hand, the later statute may not incorporate the earlier provisions. It may only make a reference of a broad nature as to thc law on a subject generally, as in Bhajiyu v. Gopikabai. [[1978] INSC 78]; [[1978] 3 SCR 561]; or contain a general reference to the terms of an earlier statute which are to be made applicable. In this case any modification, repeal or re-enactment of the earlier statute will also be carried into in the later, for here, the idea is that certain provisions of an earlier statute which become applicable in certain circumstances are to be made use of for the purpose of the latter Act also. Examples of PG NO 824 this type of legislation are to be seen in Collector of Customs v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty, [[1961] INSC 282]; [[1962] 3 SCR 786]; New Central Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Assistant Collector, [[1970] INSC 177]; [[1971] 2 SCR 92] and Special Land Acquisition Officer v. City Improvement Trust, [[1977] 1 SCR 569.] Whether a particular statute falls into the first or second category is always a question of construction. In the present case, in my view, the legislation falls into the second category. S. 3(3) of the l957 Act does not incorporate into the 1957 Act any specific provisions of the 1944 Act. It only declares generally that the provisions of the 1944 Act shall apply "so far as may be", that is, to the extent necessary and practical, for the purposes of the 1957 Act as well.
That apart, it has been held, even when a specific provision is incorporated and the case apparently falls in the first of the above categories, that the rule that repeals, modifications or amendments of the earlier Act will have to be ignored is not adhered to incertain situations.
These have been set out in State of Madhya Pradesh v.
Narasimhan. [ [[1975] INSC 133]; [1976] 1 SCR 6.] In that case. the Supreme Court was considering the question whether the amendment of s.
21 of the Penal Code by the Criminal Law Amendment Act.
195X, was also applicable for purposes of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, which by section 2 incorporates, for the purposes of that Act, the definition of `public servant' in s 2l of the Penal Code. Answering thc (question in the affirmative, the Court outlined the following proposition:
"Where a subsequent Act incorporates provisions of a previous Act. then the borrowed provisions become an integral and independent part of the subsequent Act and are totally uneffected by any repeal or amendment in the previous Act This principle. however will not apply in the following, cases:
(a) where the subsequent Act and the previous Act are supplemental to each other;
(b) where the two Acts are in pari materia:
(c) where the amendment in the previous Act, if not imported into the subsequent Act also, would render the subsequent Act wholly unworkable and uneffectual; and (d) where the amendment of the previous Act, either PG NO 825 expressly or by necessary intendment, applies the said provisions to the subsequent Act. " The present case falls within the scope of these exceptions, even if s. 3(3) is construed as incorporating certain specific provisions of the 1944 into itself. The legislation presently in question is clearly in pari materia with the 1944 Act. It is also merely supplemental. While the 1944 Act imposes a general levy of excise duty on all goods manufactured and produced, and aim of the present Act is to supplement the levy by an additional duty of the same nature on certain goods. The duration of the applicability is undefined but the statute is clearly enforceable as long as it is in the statute book side by side with the normal excise duties. The clear intention is that the same provisions shall govern both the levies except that the duty under the later Act is confined to certain goods only and its distributability among the States may perhaps follow a different pattern from the principal duty. There is no reason or logic why all the incidents attaching under the earlier legislation, in so &r as they are not clearly inconsistent with the later one should not be extended to the later legislation as well. As has been pointed out earlier, the Finance Acts which levied special or regular or additional excise duties contained in themselves all the elements of charge of duty. The goods were mentioned and the duty as to be levied either at a percentage of the normal excise duty payable under the 1944 Act or at a percentage of the value of the assessable goods as determined under the 1944 Act. All that was further needed was the applicability of the procedural provisions of the 1944 Act Here, however, the 1957 Act is incomplete as to the basis of the charge and its provisions would become totally unworkable unless the concepts of "manufacture" and "assessable value?' as determined under the 1944 Act are carried into it.
In the circumstances, I agree that we should give full and literal effect to the language of s. 3(3) and hold that it has the effect not only of attracting the procedural provisions of the 1944 Act but also all its other provisions, including those Containing the definition.
M.L.A.