of the Constitution. Sub-section (2) empowers this Court to issue directions or orders or writs, including certain specified writs, whichever may be appro- priate, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by that Part. It is clear, therefore, that article 32 can only be invoked for the purpose of the enforcement of the fundamental rights. Article 32 does not permit an applica- tion merely for the purpose of agitating the competence of the appropriate legislature in passing any particular enact- ment unless the enactment also infringes any of the funda- mental rights. In this case the claim is that the fundamen- tal rights have been infringed and, therefore, the question of legislative competence may also be incidentally raised on this application. It does not appear to me, however, that there is any substance in this point for, in my opinion, entry 33 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935, and the corresponding entry 43 of the Union List set out in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitu- tion clearly support these pieces of legislation as far as the question of legislative competency is concerned. Sec- tions 83A and 83-B of the Indian Companies Act can only be supported as valid on the ground that they regulate the management of companies and are, therefore, within the said entry. Likewise, the provisions of the Ordinance and the Act relating to the appointment of directors by the 919 Government and the curtailment of the shareholders' rights as regards the election of directors, passing of resolutions giving directions with respect to the management of the company and to present a winding up petition are matters touching the management of the company and, as such, within the legislative competence of the appropriate legislative authority. In my judgment, the Ordinance and the Act cannot be held to be invalid on the ground of legislative incompe- tency of the authority promulgating or passing the same.
Re (ii)--The fundamental rights said to have been in- fringed are the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property guaranteed to every citizen by Article 19(1)(f) and the right to property secured by article 31, In Gapalan's case (1) 1 pointed out that the rights conferred by article 19 (1) (a) to (e) and (g) would be available to the citizen until he was, under article 21, deprived of his life or personal liberty according to procedure established by law and that the right to property guaranteed by article 19 (1)(f) would likewise continue until the owner was, under article 31, deprived of such property by authority of law.
Therefore, it will be necessary to consider first whether the shareholder or the company has been deprived of his or its property by authority of law under Article 31 for, if he or it has been so deprived, then the question of his or its fundamental right under article 19 (1) (f) will not arise.
The relevant clauses of article 31 run as follows "31. (1) No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.
(2) No property, movable or immovable, including any interest in, or in any company owning, any commercial or industrial undertaking, shall be taken possession of or acquired for public purposes under any law authorisingthe taking of such possession or such acquisition, unless the law provides for compensation for the property taken posses- sion of or acquired (1) [[1950] INSC 14]; [[1950] S.C.R. 88] 920 and either fixes the amount of the compensation, or speci- fies the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given." Article 31 protects every person, whether such' person is a citizen or not. and it is wide enough to cover a natu- ral person as well as an artificial person. Whether or not, having regard to the language used in article 5, a corpora- tion can be called a citizen and as such entitled to the rights guaranteed under article 19, it is quite clear that the corporation is protected by article 31, for that article protects every "person" which expression certainly includes an artificial person.
The contention of the peitioner is that the Ordinance and the Act have infringed his fundamental right to property as a shareholder in the said company. Article 31, like article 19(1) (f), is concerned with "property ". Both the articles are in the same chapter and deal with fundamental rights. Therefore, it is reasonable to say that the word "property" must be given the same meaning in construing those two articles. What, then, is the meaning of the word "property"? It may mean either the bundle of rights which the owner has over or in respect of a thing, tangible or intangible, or it may mean the thing itself over or in respect of which the owner may exercise these rights. It is quite clear that the Ordinance or the Act has not deprived the shareholder of his share itself. The share still be- longs to the shareholder. He is still entitled to the dividend that may be declared. He can deal with or dispose of the share as he pleases. The learned Attorney-General contends that even if the other meaning of the word "proper- ty" is adopted, the shareholder has not been deprived of his" property" understood in that sense, that is to say he has not been deprived of the entire bundle of rights which put together constitute his "property ". According to him the" property" of the shareholder, besides and apart from his right to elect directors, to pass resolutions giving directions to the directors and to present a winding up petition, consists in his right to participate 921 in the dividends declared on the profits made by the working of the company and, in case of winding up, to participate in the surplus that may be left after meeting the winding up expenses and paying the creditors. Those last mentioned rights, he points out, have not been touched at all and the shareholder can yet deal with or dispose of his shares as he pleases and is still entitled to dividends if and when declared. Therefore, concludes the learned Attorney-General, the shareholder cannot complain that he has been deprived of his "property", for the totality of his rights have not been taken away. The argument thus formulated appears to me to be somewhat too wide, for it will then permit the legisla- ture to authorise the State to acquire or take possession, without any compensation, of almost the entire rights of the owner leaving to him only a few subsidiary rights. This result could not, in my opinion, have been intended by our Constitution. As said by Rich J. in the Minister for State for the Army v. Datziel (i) while dealing with section 31 (XXXI) of the Australian Constitution-- "Property, in relation to land, is a bundle of rights exercisable with respect to the land. The tenant of an unencurnbered estate in fee simple in possession has the largest possible bundle. But there is nothing in the placi- tum to suggest that the legislature was intended to be at liberty to free itself from the restrictive provisions of the placitum by taking care to seize something short of the whole bundle owned by the person whom it is expropriating." The learned Judge then concluded as follows at p. 286 :- "It would in my opinion, be wholly inconsistent with the language of the placitum to hold that whilst preventing the legislature from authorising the acquisition of a citi- zen's full title except upon just terms, it leaves it open to the legislature to seize possession and enjoy the full fruits of possession indefinitely, on any terms it chooses or upon no terms at all." (1) [[1944] HCA 4]; [(1943-1944) 68 C,L.R. 261.]
118 922 In my judgment the question whether the Ordinance or the Act has deprived the shareholder of his "property" must depend, for its answer, on whether it has taken away the substantial bulk of the rights constituting his "property".
In other words, if the rights taken away by the Ordinance or the Act are such as would render the rights left un- touched illusory and practically valueless, then there can be no question that in effect and substance the "property" of the shareholder has been taken away by the Ordinance or the Act. Judged by this test can it be said that the right to dispose of the share and the right to receive dividend, if any, or to participate in the surplus in the case of winding up that have been left to the shareholder are illu- sory or practically valueless, because the right to control the management by directors elected by him, the right to pass resolutions giving directions to the directors and the right to present a winding up petition have, for the time being, been suspended ? I think not. The right still pos- sessed by the shareholder are the most important of the rights constituting his "property", although certain privi- leges incidental to the ownership have been put in abeyance for the time being. It is, in my opinion, impossible to say that the Ordinance or the Act has deprived the shareholder of his "property" in the sense in which that word is used in article 19 (1) (f) and article 31. The curtailment of the incidental privileges, namely, the right to elect directors, to pass resolutions and to apply for winding up may well be supported as a reasonable restraint on the exercise and enjoyment of the shareholder's right of property imposed in the interests of the general public under article 19 (5), namely, to secure the supply of an essential commodity and to prevent unemployment.
Learned counsel for the petitioner, however, urges that the Ordinance and the Act have infringed the sharehold- er's right to property in that he has been deprived of his valuable right to elect directors, to give directions by passing resolutions and, in case of apprehension of loss, to present a petition for the winding 923 up of the company. These rights, it is urged, are by them- selves "property" and it is of this "property" that the shareholder is said to have been deprived bythe State under a law which does not provide for payment of compensation and which is, as such, an infraction of the shareholder's funda- mental right to property under article 31 (2). Two ques- tions arise on this argument. Are these rights "property" within the meaning of the two articles I have mentioned ? These rights, as already stated, are, no doubt, privileges incidental to the ownership of the share which itself is property, but it cannot, in my opinion, be said that these rights, by themselves, and apart from the share are "proper- ty" within the meaning of those articles, for those articles only regard that as "property" which can by itself be ac- quired, disposed of or taken possession of. The right to vote for the election of directors, the right to pass reso- lutions and the right to present a petition for winding up are personal rights flowing from the ownership of the share and cannot by themselves and apart from the share be ac- quired or disposed of or taken possession of as contemplated by those articles. The second question is assuming that these rights are by themselves "property ", what is the effect of the Ordinance and the Act on such "property". It is nobody's case that the Ordinance or the Act has autho- rised any acquisition by the State of this "property" of the shareholder or that there has in fact been any such acquisi- tion. The only question then is whether this "property" of the shareholder, meaning thereby only the rights mentioned above, has been taken possession of by the State. It will be noticed that by the Ordinance or the Act these particular rights of the shareholder have not been entirely taken away, for he can still exercise these rights subject 0 course, to the sanction of the Government. Assuming, however, that the fetters placed on these rights are tantamount to the taking away of the rights altogether, there is nothing to indicate that the Ordinance or the Act has, after taking away the rights from the shareholder, 924 vested them in the State or in any other person named by it so as to enable the State or any other person to exercise those rights of the shareholder. The Government undoubtedly appoints directors under the Act, but such appointment is made in exercise of the the powers vested in the Government by the Ordinance or the Act and not in exercise of the shareholder's right. As already indicated, entry 43 in the Union List authorises Parliament to make laws with respect, amongst other things, to the regulation of trading corpora- tions. There was, therefore, nothing to prevent Parliament from amending the Companies Act or from passing a new law regulating the management of the company by providing that the directors, instead of being elected by the shareholders, should be appointed by the Government. The new law has undoubtedly cut down the existing rights of the shareholder and thereby deprived the shareholder of his unfettered right to appoint directors or to pass resolutions giving direc- tions or to present a winding up petition. Such depriva- tion, however, has not vested the rights in the Government or its nominee. What has happened to the rights of the shareholder is that such rights have been temporarily de- stroyed or kept in abeyance. The result, therefore, has been that although the shareholder has been for the time being deprived of his "property", assuming these rights to be "property", such "property" has not been acquired or taken possession of by the Government. If this be the result brought about by the Ordinance and the Act, do they offend against the fundamental rights guaranteed by article 31 ? Article 31 (1) formulates the fundamental right in a nega- tive form prohibiting the deprivation of property except by authority of law. It implies that a person may be deprived of his property by authority of law. Article 31 (2) prohib- its the acquisition or taking possession of property for a public purpose under any law, unless such law provides for payment of compensation. It is suggested that clauses (1) and (2)o[ article 31 deal with the same topic, namely, compulsory acquisition or taking possession 925 of property, clause (2) being only an elaboration of clause (1). There appear to me to be two objections to this sug- gestion. If that were the correct view, then clause (1).must be held to be wholly redundant and clause (2), by itself, would have been sufficient. In the next place, such a view would exclude deprivation of property otherwise than by acquisition or taking of possession. One can conceive of circumstances where the State may have to deprive a person of his property without acquiring or taking possession of the same. For example, in any emergency, in order to prevent a fire spreading, the authorities may have to demolish an intervening building. This deprivation of property is sup- ported in the United States of America as an exercise of "police power ".This deprivation of property is different from acquisition or taking of possession of property which goes by the name of "eminent domain" in the American Law.
The construction suggested implies that our Constitution has dealt with only the law of "eminent domain ", but has not provided for deprivation of property in exercise of police powers' '. I am not prepared to adopt such construction, for I do not feel pressed to do so by the language used in article 31. On the contrary, the language of clause (1) of article 31 is wider than that of clause (2), for deprivation of property may well be brought about otherwise than by acquiring or taking possession of it. I think clause (1) enunciates the general principle that no person shall be deprived of his property except by authority of law, which, put in a positive form, implies that a person may be de- prived of his property, provided he is so deprived by au- thority of law. No question of compensation arises under clause (1). The effect of clause (2) is that only certain kinds of deprivation of property, namely those brought about by acquisition or taking possession of it, will not be permissible under any law, unless such law provides for payment of compensation. If the deprivation of property is brought about by means other than acquisition or taking possession of it, no compensation is required, provided that such deprivation is by 926 authority of law. In this case, as already stated, although the shareholder has been deprived of certain rights, such deprivation has been by authority of law passed by a compe- tent legislative authority. This deprivation having been brought about otherwise than by acquisition or taking pos- session of such rights, no question of compensation can arise and, therefore, there can be no question of the infraction of fundamental rights under article 31 (2). It is clear, therefore, that so far as the shareholder is concerned there has been no infringement of his fundamental rights under article 19 (1) (f) or article 31, and the shareholder cannot question the constitutionality of the Ordinance or the Act on this ground.
As regards the company it is contended that the Ordi- nance and the Act by empowering the State to dismiss the managing agent, to discharge the directors elected by the shareholders and to appoint new directors have in effect authorised the State to take possession of the undertaking and assets of the company through the new directors appoint- ed by it without paying any compensation and, therefore, such law is repugnant to article 31 (2) of our Constitution.
It is, however, urged by the learned Attorney-General that the mills and all other assets now in the possession and custody of the new directors who are only servants or agents of the said company are, in the eye of the law, in the possession and custody of the company and have not really been taken possession of by the State. This argument, however, overlooks the fact that in order that the posses- sion of the servant or agent may be juridically regarded as the possession of the master or principal, the servant or agent must be obedient to, and amenable to the directions of, the master or principal. If the master or principal has no hand in the appointment of the servant or agent or has no control over him or has no power to dismiss or discharge him, as in this case, the possession of such servant or agent can hardly, in law, be regarded as the possession of the company(1). In this view of the (1) See Elements of Law by Markby. 6th Edition. Para 371. p.
192.
927 matter there is great force in the argument that the proper- ty of the company has been taken possession of by the State through directors who have been appointed by the State in exercise of the powers conferred by the Ordinance and the Act and who are under the direction and control of the State and this has been done without payment of any compen- sation. The appropriate legislative authority was no doubt induced to enact this law, because, as the preamble to the Ordinance stated, on account of mismanagement and neglect, a situation had arisen in the affairs of the company which had prejudicially- affected the production of an essential com- modity and had caused serious unemployment amongst a certain section of the community, but, as stated by Holmes J. in Pennsylvania Coal Company v. Mahon(1), "A strong public desire to improve the public condition is not enough to warrant achieving the desire by a shorter cut than the constitutional. way of paying for the change." Here, there- fore, it may well be argued that the property of the company having been taken possession of by the State in exercise of powers conferred by a law which does not provide for payment of any compensation, the fundamental right of the company has, in the eye of the law, been infringed.
If the fundamental right of the company has been in- fringed, at all, who can complain about such infringement ? Primafacie the company would be the proper person to come forward in vindication of its own rights. It is said that the directors having been dismissed, the company cannot act.
This, however, is a misapprehension, for if the Act be void on account of its being unconstitutional, the directors appointed by the shareholders have never in law been dis- charged and are still in the eye of the law the directors of the company, and there was nothing to prevent them from taking proceedings in the name of the company at their own risk as to costs. Seeing that the directors have not come forward to make the application on behalf of the company and in its name the question arises whether (1) [[1922] USSC 193]; [260 U,S. 393.]
928 an individual shareholder can complain. It is well settled in the United States that no one but those whose rights are directly affected by a law can raise the question of the constitutionality of that law. Thus in McCabe v.
Atchison(1) which arose out of a suit filed by five Negros against five Railway Companies to restrain them from making any distinction in service on account of race pursuant to an Oklahoma Act known as ' 'The Separate Coach Law," in uphold- ing the dismissal of the suit Hughes J. observed :-- "It is an elementary principle that in order to justify the granting of this extraordinary relief, the complainants' need of it and the absence of an adequate remedy at law must clearly appear. The complaint cannot succeed because some- one else may be hurt. Nor does it make any difference that other persons who may be injured are persons of the same race or occupation. It is the fact, clearly established, of injury to the complainant--not to others -which justi- fies judicial interference." In that case there was no allegation that anyone of the plaintiffs had ever travelled on anyone of the rail roans or had requested any accommodation in any of the sleeping cars or that such request was refused. The same principle was laid down in Jeffrey Manufacturing Company v. Blagg(2), Hendrick v. MaCyland(3) and Newark Natural Gas and Fuel Company v. The City of Newark(1). In each of these cases the Court declined to permit the person raising the question of constitutionality to do so on the ground that his rights were not directly affected by the law or Ordinance in ques- tion. On the other hand, in Truax v. Raich(5) and in Bu- chanan v. Warley(5) the Court allowed the plea because in both the cases the person raising it was directly affected.
In the first of the two last mentioned cases an Arizona Act of 1914 requiring employers employing more than five workers to employ not less than eighty per cent. native born citi- zens was (1) 235 u.s. 151. (4) 242 u.s. 403.
(2) 235 u.s. 571. (5) 239 u.s. 33.
(3) [[1915] USSC 5]; [235 U.S. 610 ] (6) 245 u.s. 60.
929 challenged by an alien who had been employed as a cook in a restaurant. That statute made a violation of the Act by an employer punishable. The fact that the employment was at will or that the employer and not the employee was subject to prosecution did not prevent the employee from raising the question of constitutionality because the statute, if en- forced, would compel the employer to discharge the employee and, therefore, the employee was directly affected by the statute. In the second of the two last mentioned cases a city Ordinance prevented the occupation of a plot by a colored person in a block where a majority of the residences were occupied by white persons. A white man sold his property in such a block to a Negro under a contract which provided that the purchaser should not be required to accept a deed unless he would have a right, under the laws of the city, to occupy the same as a residence. The vendor sued for specific performance and contended that the Ordinance was unconstitutional. Although the alleged denial of con- stitutional rights involved only the rights of coloured persons and the vendor was a white person yet it was held that the vendor was directly affected, because the Courts below, in view of the Ordinance, declined to enforce his contract and thereby directly affected his right to sell his property. It is, therefore, clear that the constitutional validity of a law can be challenged only by a person whose interest is directly affected by the law. The question then arises whether the infringement of the company's rights so directly affects its shareholders as to entitle any of its shareholders to question the constitutional validity of the law infringing the company's rights. The question has been answered in the negative by the Supreme Court of the United States in Darnell v. The State of Indi- ana(1). In that case the owner of a share in a Tennessee corporation was not allowed to complain that an Indiana law discriminated against Tennessee corporations in that it did not make any allowance, as it did in the case of Indiana corporations, where the corporation (1) [226 U.S. 388.]
119 930 had property taxed within the State. This is in accord with the well established legal principle that a corporation is a legal 'entity capable of holding pro perty and of suing or being sued and the corporators are not, in con- templation of law, the owners of the assets of the corpora- tion. In all the cases referred to above the question of constitutionality was raised in connection with the equal protection clause in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Federal Constitution. If such be the require- ments of law in connection with the equal protection clause which corresponds to our article 14, it appears to me to follow that only a person who is the owner of the property can raise the question of constitutionality under article 31 of a law by which he is so deprived of his property. If direct interest is necessary to permit a person to raise the question of constitutionality under article 14, a direct interest in the property will, I apprehend, be necessary to entitle a person to challenge a law which is said to infringe the right to that property under article 31. In my opinion, although a shareholder may, in a sense be interested to see that the company of which he is a shareholder is not deprived of its property he cannot, as held in Darnell v. Indiana(1), be heard to complain, in his own name and on his own behalf, of the infringement of the fundamental right to property of the company, for, in law, his own right to property has not been infringed as he is not the owner of the company's properties. An interest in the company owning an undertak- ing is not an interest in the undertaking itself. The interest in the company which owns an undertaking is the "property" of the shareholder under article 31 (2), but the undertaking is the property of the company and not that of the shareholder and the latter cannot be said to have a direct interest in the property of the company. This is the inevitable result of attributing a legal personality to a corporation. The proceedings for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus appear to be somewhat different for the (1) 226 u.S. 338 931 rules governing those proceedings permit, besides the person imprisoned, any person, provided he is not an utter strang- er, but is at least a friend or relation of the imprisoned person, to apply for that particular writ. But that special rule does not appear to be applicable to the other writs which require a direct and tangible interest in the appli- cant to support his application. This must also be the case where the applicant seeks to raise the question of the constitutionality of a under articles 14, 19 and 31.
For the reasons set out above the present petitioner cannot raise the question of constitutionality of the impugned law under article 31. He cannot complain of any infringement of his own rights as a shareholder, because his "property" has not been acquired or taken possession of by the State although he has been deprived of his right to vote and to present a winding up petition by authority of law. Nor can he complain of an infringement of the compa- ny's right to property because he is not, in the eye of law, the owner of the property in question and accordingly not directly interested in it. In certain exceptional cases where the company's property is injured by outsiders, a shareholder may, under the English law, alter making all endeavours to induce the persons in charge of the affairs of the company to take steps, file a suit on behalf of himself and other shareholders for redressing the wrong done to the company, but that principle does not apply here for this is not a suit, nor has it been shown that any attempt was made by the petitioner to induce the old directors to take steps nor do these proceedings purport to have been taken by the petitioner on behalf of himself and the other shareholders of the.company.
The only other ground on which the Ordinance and the Act have been challenged is that they infringe the the fundamen- tal rights guaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution.
"Equal protection of the laws", as observed by Day 3. in Southern Railway Company v. Greene (1), "means subjection to equal laws, applying (1) [[1910] USSC 60]; [216 U.S. 400] 932 alike to all in the same situation". The inhibition of the article that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws was designed to protect all persons against legislative discrim- ination amongst equals and to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation. It does not, howev- er, mean that every law must have universal application, for all persons are not, by nature, attainment or circumstances, in the same position. The varying needs of different class- es of persons often require separate treatment and it is, therefore, established by judicial decisions that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri- can Constitution does not take away from the State the power to classify persons for legislative purposes. This classi- fication may be on different bases. It may be geographical or according to objects or occupations or the like. If law deals equally with all of a certain well-defined class it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of a denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no applica- tion to other persons, for the class for whom the law has been made is different from other persons and, there- fore, there is no discrimination amongst equals. It is plain that every classification is in some degree likely' to produce some inequality, but mere production of inequality is not by itself enough. The inequality produced, in order to encounter the challenge of the Constitution, must be "actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary." Said Day J. in Southern Railway Company v. Greene(1) :---" While reasonable classification is permitted, without doing vio- lence to the equal protection of the laws, such classifica- tion must be based upon some real and substantial distinc- tion, bearing a reasonable and just relation to the things in respect to which such classification is imposed; and the classification cannot be arbitrarily made without any substantial basis. Arbitrary selection, it has been said, cannot be justified by calling it classification". Quite conceivably there may be a law 933 relating to a single individual if it is made apparent that, on account of some special reasons applicable only to him and inapplicable to anyone else, that single individual is a class by himself. In Middieton v. Texas Power and Light Company(1) it was pointed out that there was a strong presumption that a legislature understood and correctly appreciated the needs of its own people, that its laws were directed to problems made manifest by experience and that the discriminations were based upon adequate grounds. It was also pointed out in that case that the burden was upon him who attacked a law for unconstitutionality. In Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Company(2) It was also said that one who assailed the classification made in a law must carry the burden of showing that it did not rest upon any reasonable basis but was essentially arbitrary. If there is a classi- fication, the Court will not hold it invalid merely because the law might have been extended to other persons who in some respects might resemble the class for which the law was made, for the legislature is the best judge of the needs of the particular classes and to estimate the degree of evil so as to adjust its legislation according to the exigency found to exist. If, however, there is, on the face of the stat- ute, no classification at all or none on the basis of any apparent difference specially peculiar to any particular individual or class and not applicable to any other person or class of persons and yet the law hits only the particular individual or class it is nothing but an attempt to arbi- trarily single out an individual or class for discriminating and hostile legislation. The presumption in favour of the legislature cannot in such a case be legitimately stretched so as to throw the impossible onus on the complainant to prove affirmatively that there are other individuals or class of individuals who also possess the precise amount of the identical qualities which are attributed to him so as to form a class with him. As pointed out by Brewer J. in the Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe'Railway v.W.H. Ellis (3), while good faith (1} [[1919] USSC 58]; [249 U.S. 152 .] (2) [[1911] USSC 42]; [220 U.S. 61 .] (3) 165 U.S
150.
934 and a knowledge of existing conditions on the part of a legislature was to be presumed, yet to carry that presump- tion to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reason for subjecting certain indi- viduals or corporations to hostile and discriminating legis- lation was to make the protecting clause a mere rope of sand, in no manner restraining State action.
The complaint of the petitioner on this head is formu- lated in paragraph 8 (iii) of the petition as follows :---"The Ordinance denied to the company and its sharehold- ers equality before the law and equal protection of the laws and was thus a violation of article 14 of the Constitution.
The power to make regulations relating to trading corpo- rations or the control or production of industries was a power which consistently with article 14 could be exercised only generally or with reference to a class and not with reference to a single company or to shareholders of a single company." The Act is also challenged on the same ground in paragraph 9 of the petition. The learned Attorney-General contends that the petitioner as an individual shareholder cannot complain of discrimination against the company. It will be noticed that it is not a case of a shareholder complaining only about discrimination against the company or fighting the battle of the company but it is a case of a shareholder complaining of discrimination against himself and other shareholders of this company. It is true that there is no complaint of discrimination inter se the share- holders of this company but the complaint is that the share- holders of this company, taken as a unit, have been discrim- inated vis-a-vis the shareholders of other companies.
Therefore, the question as to the right of the shareholder to question the validity of a law infringing the right of the company does not arise. Here the shareholder is com- plaining of the infringement of his own rights and if such infringement can be established I see no reason why the shareholder cannot come within article 32 to vindicate his own rights. The fact that these proceedings have been taken by 935 one single shareholder holding only one single fully paid up share does not appear to me to make any the least difference in principle. If this petitioner has, by the Ordinance or the Act, been discriminated against and denied equal protec- tion of the law, his fundamental right has been infringed and his right to approach this Court for redress cannot be made dependent on the readiness or willingness of other shareholders whose rights have also been infringed to join him in these proceedings or of the company to take substan- tive proceedings. To take an example, if any law discrimi- nates against a class, say the Punjabis, any Punjabi may question the constitutionality of the law, without joining the whole Punjabi community or without acting on behalf of all the Punjabis. To insist on his doing so will be to put a fetter on his fundamental right under article 32 which the Constitution has not imposed on him. Similarly, if any law deprives a particular shareholder or the shareholders of a particular company of the ordinary rights of sharehold- ers under the general law for reasons not particularly and specially applicable to him or them but also applicable to other shareholders of other companies, such law surely offends against article 14 and any one so denied the equal protection of law may legitimately complain of the infringe- ment of his fundamental right and is entitled as of right to approach this Court under article 32 to enforce his own fundamental right under article 14, irrespective of whether any other person joins him or not.
To the charge of denial of equal protection of the laws the respondents in the affidavit of Sri Vithal N. Chandavar- kar filed in opposition to the petition make the following reply:--"With reference to paragraph 6 of the petition, I deny the soundness of the submissions that on or from the 26th January, 1950, when the Constitution of India came into force the said Ordinance became void under article 13(1) of the Constitution or that the provisions thereof were inconsistent with the provisions of Part III of the said Constitution or for any of the other grounds mentioned in paragraph 8 936 of the said petition." In the whole of the affidavit in opposition there is no suggestion as to why the promulgation of the Ordinance or the passing of the Act was considered necessary at all or on what principle or basis either of them was founded. No attempt has been made in the affidavit to show that the Ordinance or the Act was based upon any principle of classification at all or even that the particu- lar company and its shareholders possess any special quali- ties which are not to be found in other companies and their shareholders and which, therefore, render this particular company and its shareholders a class by themselves. Neither the affidavit in opposition nor the learned Attorney- General in course of his arguments referred to the statement of the objects and reasons for introducing the bill which was eventually enacted or the Parliamentary debates as showing the reason why and under what circumstances this law was made and, therefore, apart from the question of their admis- sibility in evidence, the petitioner has had no opportunity to deal with or rebut them and the same cannot be used against him.
The learned Attorney-General takes his stand on the presumption that the law was founded on a valid basis of classification, that its discriminations were based upon adequate grounds and that the law was passed for safeguard- ing the needs of the people and that, therefore, the onus was upon the petitioner to allege and prove that the classi- fication which he challenged did not rest upon any reasona- ble basis but was essentially arbitrary. I have already said that if on the face of the law there is no classification at all or, at any rate, none on the basis of any apparent difference specially peculiar to the individual or class affected by the law, it is only an instance of an arbitrary selection of an individual or class for discriminating and hostile legislation and, therefore, no presumption can, in such circumstances, arise at all. Assuming, however, that even in such a case the onus is thrown on the complainant, there can be nothing to prevent him from proving, if he can, from the text of. the law itself, that 937 it is "actually and palpably unreasonable and arbitrary" and thereby discharging the initial onus.
The Act is intituled an Act to make special provision for the proper management and administration of the Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company, Limited." There is not even a single preamble alleging that the company was being misman- aged at all or that any special reason existed which made it expedient to enact this law. The Act, on its face, does not purport to make any classification at all or to specify any special' vice to which this particular company and its shareholders are subject and which is not to be found in other companies and their shareholders so as to justify any special treatment. Therefore., this Act, ex facie, is nothing but an arbitrary selection of this particular compa- ny and its shareholders for discriminating and hostile treatment and read by itself.is palpably an infringement of Article 14 of the Constitution.
The learned Attorney-General promptly takes us to the preambles to the Ordinance which has been replaced by the Act and suggests that the Act is based on the same consider- ations on which the Ordinance was promulgated. Assuming that it is right and permissible to refer to and utilise the preambles, do they alter the situation ? The preambles were as follows :-"Whereas on account of mismanagement and ne- glect a situation has arisen in the affairs of the Sholapur Spinning and Weaving Company, Limited, which has prejudi- cially affected the production of an essential commodity and has caused serious unemployment amongst a certain section of the community;And whereas an emergency has arisen which renders it necessary to make special provision for the proper management and administration of the aforesaid compa- ny;-" The above preambles quite clearly indicate that the justification of the Ordinance rested on mismanagement and neglect producing certain results therein specified. It will be noticed that apart from these preambles there is no material whatever before us establishing or even suggesting that this company and its shareholders have in fact been guilty of any 938 mismanagement or neglect. Be that as it may, the only reason put forward for the promulgation of the Ordinance was mismanagement resulting in falling off of production and in producing unemployment. I do not find it necessary to say that mismanagement and neglect in conducting the affairs of companies can never be a criterion or basis of classifica- tion for legislative purposes. I shall assume that it is permissible to make a law whereby all delinquent companies and 'their shareholders may be brought to book and all companies mismanaging their affairs and the shareholders of such companies may, in the interest of the general public, be deprived of their right to manage the affairs of their companies. Such a classification made by a law would bear a reasonable relation to the conduct of all delinquent compa- nies and shareholders and may, therefore, create no inequal- ity, for the delinquent companies and their shareholders from a separate class and cannot claim equality of treatment with good companies and their shareholders who are their betters. But a distinction cannot be made between the delinquent companies inter se or between shareholders of equally delinquent companies and one set cannot be punished for its delinquency while another set is permitted to continue, or become, in like manner, delinquent without any punishment unless there be some other apparent difference in their respective obligations and unless there be some cogent reason why prevention of mismanagement is more imperative in one instance than in the other. To do so will be nothing but an arbitrary selection which can never be justified as a permissible classiffication. I am not saying that this particular company and its shareholders may not be guilty of mismanagement and negligence which has brought about seri- ous fall in production of an essential commodity and also considerable unemployment. But if mismanagement affect- ing production and resulting in unemployment is to be the basis of a classification for making a law for preventing mismanagement and securing production and employment, the law must embrace within its 939 ambit all companies which now are or may hereafter become subject to the vice. This basis of classification, by its very nature, cannot be exclusively applicable to any partic- ular company and its shareholders but is capable of wider application and, therefore, the law founded on that basis must also be wide enough so as to be capable of being ap- plicable to whoever may happen at any time to fall within that classification. Mismanagement affecting production can never be reserved as a special attribute peculiar to a particular company or the shareholders of a particular company. It it were permissible for the legislature to single out an individual or class and to punish him or it for some delinquency which may equally be found in other individuals or classes and to leave out the other individu- als or classes from the ambit of the law the prohibition of the denial of equal protection of the laws would only be a meaningless and barren form of words. The argument that the presumption being in favour of the legislature, the onus is on the petitioner to show there are other individuals or companies equally guilty of mismanagement prejudicially affecting the production of an essential commodity and causing serious unemployment amongst a certain section of the community does not, in such. circumstances, arise, for the simple reason that here there has been no classification at all and, in any case, the basis of classification by its very nature is much wider and cannot, in it application, be limited only to this company and its shareholders and, that being so, there is no reason to throw on the petitioner the almost impossible burden of proving that there are other companies which are in fact precisely and in all particu- lars similarly situated In any event, the petitioner, in my opinion, may well claim to have discharged the onus of showing that this company and its shareholders have been singled out for discriminating treatment by showing that the Act, on the face of it, has adopted a basis of classifica- tion which, by its very nature, cannot be exclusively ap- plicable to this company and its shareholders but Which may be equally appplicable to other companies 940 and their shareholders and has penalised this particular company and its shareholders, leaving out other companms and their shareholders who may be equally guilty of the alleged vice of mismanagement and neglect of the type referred to in the preambles. In my opinion the legislation in question infringes the fundamental rights of the petitioner and offends against article 14 of our Constitution.
The result, therefore, is that this petition ought to succeed and the petitioner should have an order in terms of prayer (3) of the petition with costs.
Petition dismissed.
Agent for the petitioner: M.S.K. Aiyengar.
Agent for opposite party Nos. 1 & 2:P.A. Mehta.
Agent for opposite party Nos. 3 to 5 and 7 to 10:
Rajinder Narain.