 Present appeal impugnes the judgment and order dated 28.05.2012 passed by the High Court of Delhi, thereby dismissing the writ petition which was filed by the appellant . The appellant  Union of India issued a Notice Inviting Tenders in August 1992 (1992 NIT), along with a Model Production Sharing Contract (MPSC), for Development of Oil and Gas Fields  The appellant's two PSCs are among these 13 PSCS referred to by the MoPNG in this Office Memorandum . The OM noted that it would not be equitable and  The case was later transferred to the Assistant Director of Income-Tax (International Taxation), Ahmedabad (ADIT) The ADIT also raised the question of applicability of the Section  The High Court dismissed the writ petition by passing detailed judgment on 28.05.2012 .  The MoPNG contract, which was ultimately signed, omitted to include such a clause . The High Court rejected the plea of the appellant that 1992 NIT included and referred to the M  The High Court concluded that appellant was fully aware of Clause 16.2 of MPSC which specifically makes reference to benefit under Section 42 of the Act, but did not advert to and  The accounts of the venture were drawn up on the footing that the deductions under Sect5ion 42 were available and that, accordingly, the Income Tax liability would stand reduced . On this footing  Mr. Arijit Prasad, Advocate, who appeared for all the respondents countered the aforesaid submissions emphatically and passionately . He argued that insofar as income tax department is concerned it could  Two Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) dated 20-02-1995 executed between the appellant and the Central Government . Whether there was any intention between the parties for giving benefit of deductions under  Court held that the mere fact that the assessee had offered to pay tax under Section 44 (BB) of the Act in some of the earlier years will not operate as an estopp  The Assessing Officer had no option but to deny the benefit of deductions/allowances claimed by the appellant in its income tax returns filed for the Assessment Year 2005-06 .  The High Court has side tracked the language of the three letters written by the MoPNG in response to the appellant's communications seeking its clarification . The MoF even requested the MoF  Second prayer aims at seeking quashing of orders dated 31.12.2007 and notices dated 28.03.2008 and 01.05.2008 vide which income tax assessments for Assessment Years  In pure contractual matters extraordinary remedy of writ under Article 226 or Article 32 of the Constitution cannot be invoked . Issues arising out of contractual matters are to be decided on the basis of law of  No writ or order can be issued under Article 226 of the Constitution of India so as to compel the authorities to remedy a breach of contract pure and simple [?CITATION?].  The Supreme Court examined the nature of appointment of the Government counsel in the Districts with reference to the various legal provisions including legal Remembrance Manual and Section 24 Code of Criminal Procedure as well  It would be alien to the Constitutional scheme to accept the argument of exclusion of Art. 14 in contractual matters . The scope and permissible grounds of judicial review in such matters and relief which may  The difficulty will lie in demarcating the frontier between the public law domain and the private law field . The question must be decided in each case with reference to the particular action, the  A writ petition against a State or an instrumentality of a State arising out of a contractual obligation is maintainable . The High Court has a discretion to entertain or not to entertain a writ  Petition was not maintainable to avoid contractual obligation . Occurrence of commercial difficulty, inconvenience or hardship in performance of the conditions agreed to in the contract can provide no justification in not complying with  A clause in the contract, in the face of specific provisions in the . contract to the contrary as noted above, particularly, Article 32 thereof . It was purely a contractual matter with no 