 Madhya Pradesh Krishi Upaj Mandi Mandi Adhiniyam, 1972 (hereinafter described as, the Market Act) is applicable to the transactions involving the purchase  The Market Act is in direct conflict with the provisions of Sections 12, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the Sugarcane Act made by the State Legislature of  The Sugarcane Act will prevail over the Market Act, which generally empowers the market committees to levy market fee on the sale and purchase of notified agricultural produce . Shri Bhush  The Cane Development Council is vested with the capacity of suing and being sued in its corporate name, of acquiring, holding, administering and transferring property both movable and immovable, and  The cane grown by a cane-grower shall not be purchased except through a Cane-growers' Co-operative Society . The provisions relating to payment, interest and recovery,  The Control Order was framed by the Central Government under the power vested in it under Section 3 of the EC Act . It includes the minimum price of sugarcane to be paid by producers  The Market Act was enacted for better regulation of buying and selling of agricultural produce and for the establishment and proper administration of markets of the State . The Act read as under: "In this  In every market area, (i) there shall be a market yard; and (ii) there may be more than one sub-market yards; (b) for every market yard  No notified agricultural produce shall be removed out of the market yard, market proper or the market area as the case may be, except in accordance with a permit issued by the Market Committee .  The funds will be used for the maintenance and improvement of the market yards . The money will also be used to pay for the construction and maintenance of the facilities .  The primary object of the Sugarcane Act is to ensure adequate supply of cane to the factories and timely payment of price to the cultivators . The Act contains comprehensive provisions for making available  The Market Act was enacted to regulate the transactions involving the sale and purchase of agricultural produce . Clauses 3(3) and (3-A) mandate payment of the price of cane  Section 37(1) mandates execution of an agreement by any person who buys agricultural produce in the market area . All monies received by a Market Committee including market fee shall be paid into  The argument of Shri Tankha and Shri Banthia that the Sugarcane Act and the Control Order are silent on the issue of levy of market fee on transactions involving the purchase  In Belsund Sugar Co. Ltd v. State of Bihar (supra), the Constitution Bench considered the legality of levy of market fee under the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act,  The Constitution Bench took congnizance of the fact that the Bihar Sugarcane Act, 1981 was a later enactment . The relevant provisions of the Act project a well-knit and  The market Act would require the very same sugarcane to be brought to the market yard for being sold at the public auction to the highest bidder who may not be the sugar factory itself  The Control Order deals with compulsory acquisition of 1/3rd of rice of each variety produced by a miller . It does not deal with the sale and purchase of the remaining 2/  The Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1960 has been in force in the State since October, 1960 . The working of the Act has revealed certain shortcomings and it was considered desirable  The Punjab Act of 1953 extinguished all private interests in Shamlat-deh lands and vested those lands in the Village Panchayats . It was not reserved for the assent of  The word assent is used purposefully indicating affirmative action of the proposal made by the State for having law repugnant to the earlier law made by Parliament . It would amount to accepting or  Assent of the President envisaged under Article 254(2) is neither an idle or empty formality, nor an automatic event, necessitated or to be given for the mere asking  The significant and serious alteration in or modification of the rights of parties, both individuals or institutions resulting from the assent cannot be overlooked or lightly brushed aside as of no significance, whatsoever . 