 In this judgment, we will deal with the prayer made by the petitioner Swaraj Abhiyan relating to the implementation of the National Food Security Act, 2013 (for short the N  The menu under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme is locally decided and of the 12 States that we are concerned with, only 5 States that is Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya  The entire State of Himachal Pradesh is in hills and without workable roads, no communication is possible . For residents of hilly areas, access to roads is access to life itself  There is no statutory or constitutional obligation on the State to provide edible oils and dal/lentil to people in distress . Even on a conservative estimate, more than 33 crore people  Our constitutional jurisprudence has travelled an enormous distance over the years to even think of attempting a roll-back. The plea of financial inability cannot be an excuse for disregarding statutory  There is no dispute that calorific and nutritional contents for children have been prescribed under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme . No direction can be given in this regard by this Court . Neither  Bihar, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh must within a month from today make adequate provision for the supply of eggs or milk or any other nutritional substitute for children under the Mid-Day Meal  The Government of India acknowledges that the minimum guaranteed employment is 100 days in a year in terms of the NREG Act, but that it is voluntary . While the guarantee is for 100 days  The total number of households that have been provided 100 days of employment in the year 2015-16 is said to be 47,06,129 (as on 19th April, 2016)  An affidavit states that funds are required to be released in two tranches, the first tranche in the first week of April (for the period 1st April to 30th September)  Workers are entitled to receive delay compensation at a rate of 0.05% of the unpaid wages per day for the duration of the delay beyond the sixteenth day of the closure of the  The Government of India is not prone to easily release funds for the projects under the Scheme . Delayed release of payments has an adverse impact in the sense that it acts as a disincent  Justice Pathak concurred with the view of Justice Bhagwati but preferred to rest his decision on a breach of Article 14 of the Constitution and not Article 23 thereof . Justice Path  First tranche will be released in two installments  the first installment being released in April 2016 . The second tranche would be released  after the regular budget is passed in Parliament . The  A success rate below 50% is nothing to be proud of . The Government of India is directed to ensure that compensation for delayed payment is made over to the workers whose wages have been delayed  The Union of India submits that under Section 46 of the [Disaster Management Act, 2005], the Central Government has constituted a National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for meeting  A Fodder Bank has been established under the Centrally Sponsored Fodder and Feed Development Scheme and the National Mission for Protein Supplements for the areas notified as drought affected in 2012  There cannot be any judicially manageable standards for determining issues of policy and it would be hazardous if not dangerous for us to venture into such areas when we lack the expertise to do so  The system of in-house checks has already been statutorily recognized for all the issues that we have dealt with in this case . For the present, therefore, we do not see  The Labour Budget (LB) will be analysed by the Ministry and put up to the Empowered Committee chaired by Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development . The final LB for the State as a  The State Council has the power to review the implementation of the Act . The Council must also have a member of the Scheduled Castes, the Other Backward Classes and the State of 