 The Rajasthan High Court in a contempt petition filed against the appellant, Jaipur Development Authority, for failure to comply with an order of the High Court . The case arises out  The compensation was received by Jagirdar Mahant Ram Narain on 29.10.1968 as interim compensation under the Jagir Act . An Award was passed by the Land Acquisition Officer  The land had already vested in the State and therefore, no benefit could be granted to the respondent under illegal and void proceedings, particularly when the entire land acquisition proceedings were a nullity .  There could not have been any notification under Section 4(1) and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act seeking to acquire land belong to the Government itself, and therefore, entire initiation of the  A sum of Rs. 2250 was sanctioned as interim compensation and rehabilitation grant payable to the Jagirdar Ram Narain under Section 36 of the Rajasthan Land Reforms and Res  The High Court by the impugned order directed for payment of compensation, totally ignored the contention of the appellant that such an order is a nullity in the eyes of law which submission  The intention behind the government actions and 23 purposes is to further the public welfare and the national interest . Public good is synonymous with protection of the interests of citizens as a territorial unit or nation  The award passed by the land acquisition officer was only an offer which itself was a nullity . The amount deposited pursuant to the orders of this Court, if, has been withdrawn by respondent  The said Usha Kumari who had purchased the plot from the original Khatedar, one Narpat Singh, was allotted a plot no H-256 in the Lal Koth  Sub-awardees and subsequent purchasers possess right vis-`-vis the original vendor only and not against the State Government as the purchases were subsequent to passing of the award .  Pushpa Saxena, Kamla Mehta and Dr. S.K. Sharma are not entitled to an allotment of 250 sq.yards of land . The decision to allot  If any one of them has paid the charges for allotment of alternative land they can only get back the same from the competent authority, in which case, they shall be paid interest at 