 Air India Limited was constituted under the Air Corporations Act, 1953 . Hotel Corporation of India is a Government Company incorporated under the Companies Act . Air India controls the composition of the Board of  The workmen alleged that Air India had entered into a contract with the Corporation to deny the workmen their legitimate right by circumventing the various provisions of the Contract Labour (Regulation and  Workmen were being made employees of a weaker entity against whom they can claim no rights . Air India engaged the Corporation which has expertise in the field to run and operate the Canteen .  Air India has a large role to play in the operation and management of the Canteen . The court has to be astute in piercing the veil to avoid the mischief and achieve the purpose  A minister appoints the members or directors of a corporation and he is entitled to call for information, to give directions which are binding on the directors and to supervise over the conduct of  The tests that are applied to find out whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor may not automatically apply in finding out whether the contract labour agreement is a sham, nominal and is  Mr. Bhushan, lastly submits that the workmen were engaged in the Canteen provided by Air India in compliance of Rule 65(2) of the Rules framed in  The submission of the appellants that . because the canteen had been set up pursuant to a statutory obligation under Section 46 of the Factories Act therefore the employees in the . canteen  These appeals have been filed by the appellants challenging the judgment and order dated 2nd May, 2011 passed in L.P.A. Nos.388 of 2010, 390 of 2010  The complaints were filed by the said workmen under Section 33(A) of the I.D. Act to adjudicate the existing industrial dispute between the concerned workmen and the Management  Industrial Dispute case involving the workmen whose services were terminated during the pendency of petition before CGIT, must also be treated as permanent workmen at par with the concerned workmen 