 Petitioners have sought a declaration that the Prevention of Food Adulteration (Eighth Amendment) Rules, 2005 [vide Notification No.GSR 670(E) dated 17  The said omission of Rule 44-H was challenged by an NGO in Writ Petition (C) No.525 of 2000 in this Court . 263 districts were found to be endemic for ID  Rule 44-I violates Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution, which entitle every person to have free choice in regard to consumption of food . Petitioners submit that the cost of iodised  Iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) do constitute a public health problem . There is no rationale for instituting a universal ban on iodised salt . The medical profession can prescribe iod  Iodine deficiency disorders have been recognized as a public health problem in India since the 1920s . Iodised salt is known to cause hyperthyroidism and also severe allergic reactions  Iodine is distributed unequally over the earth, and half of the world's population lives in countries with significant iodine deficiency . The benefits of correcting iodine deficiency far outweigh the risks of  The question whether there should be universal salt iodisation is a much debated technical issue relating to medical science . An informed decision in such matters can only be taken by experts after carrying out exhaustive  The contention that Article 19(1)(g) is violated is liable to be rejected . The ban operates only in regard to use of common salt for human consumption . There is also no  In [?CITATION?], this court described the object of the Act thus: "The Act has been enacted to curb and remedy the widespread evil of food-adulter  The true extent of the power governs the legal meaning of the delegated legislation . The delegate is not intended to travel wider than the object of the legislature . Such a power will not support attempts  Rule 44-I is not a prohibition by the Food (Health) Authority in the interest of public health . We are not concerned with either any notification by the central government constituting the  Section 23(1A)(f) empowers making a rule to prohibit sale only if the substance is injurious to health when used as food . If use of common salt is not  Article 142 has the power to make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice "between the parties in any cause or matter pending before it". The very nature of the power must lead  Judgement is pronounced in WP(C) No.80 of 2006 and the aforesaid five transferred cases, allowing them in terms of the Judgement . Writ Petition (Civil) No 