 The staff of Delhi High Court started drawing more pay in some categories of class IV, class Il & III employees, than the employees of the Supreme Court similarly placed . The High Court of  The petitions have been listed for final hearing after the report of Fourth Pay Commis- sion .  The regulation of the conditions of service of the Supreme Court 492 employees is the constitutional responsibility and power of the Chief Justice of India . Rules are liable to be declared invalid if they are  The approval of the President is not a matter of mere formality . It will only be in exceptional cases that the President would withhold assent .  Writ Petitions and Civil Miscellaneous Petitions have been filed by the employees of the Supreme Court praying for their pay hike . Two events, which will be stated presently, seem to have inspired  The Five-Judge Committee in its report stated, inter alia, that no attempt had been made to provide a separate and distinct identity to ministerial staff belonging to the Registry of the Supreme  Supreme Court employees have approached this Court by filing the instant Writ Petitions and the Civil Miscella- neous Petitions for upward revision of their pay-scales as were allowed  Court passed interim orders giving higher pay-scales to certain categories of employees holding Group B, C and D posts . The scales of pay of Rs400-600 and Rs.300  The Fourth Pay Commission reduced the existing 153 pay-scales to 36 . The Registrar General was of the opinion that the Pay Commission should not have made any such recom- mendation  The pay-scales of Junior Clerks and Class IV employees of the Supreme Court, which have not been mentioned in the annexure, are therefore under consideration of the Government .  It is urged by the learned Attorney General that the judgments of the Delhi High Court are absolutely erroneous and that they are neither final nor do they operate as res judicata, between the  Non-speaking order does not justify any inference that, by necessary implication, the contentions raised in the Special Leave Petition on the merits of the case have been rejected by the Supreme Court  The Delhi High Court judgments do not decide any abstract question of law and there is also no question of 507 jurisdiction involved . But an erroneous decision may operate as res judicata between  It is not the case of the Union of India that the Delhi High Court employees are not similarly situated as the Supreme Court employees . There is a reasonable justification for making a discrimination between these  The learned Attorney General has placed reliance upon a decision of this Court in State of Orissa v. Durga Charan Das . The Delhi High Court has made an error and that error  It is not the business of this Court to fix the pay-scales of any institution in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution . We are unable to accept the suggestion  The doctrine of 'equal pay for equal work' does not come within Article 14 of the Constitution as an abstract doctrine, but if any classification is made relating to the pay-scales  Relying upon the decision in Chaurasia's case, it has been urged by the learned Attorney General that in the instant case also this COurt should accept the recommenda- t  It is apparent from Article 146(2) that it is primarily the responsibility of Parliament to lay down the conditions of service of the officers and servants of the Supreme Court . But so long  The President of India in approving the rules of the Chief Justice of India relating to salaries, allowances, leave or pensions is a legislative act . No court can issue a mandate to a legislature  The President of India cannot be directed by the Court to grant approval to the rules framed by the Chief Justice of India relating to salaries, allowances, leave and pensions of the officers and servants  The Chief Justice of India and the Chief justice of the concerned High Court, are empowered to frame rules relating to salaries, allowances, leave or pensions . The President of India cannot be compelled  The Chief Justice of India has to apply his mind when he frames the rules under Article 146(2) with the assistance of his officers . The application of mind will include exchange of thoughts  The provision of Article 146(2) requires that rules have to be framed by the Chief Justice of India and if such rules relate to salaries, allowances, leave or pension, the same  The pay-scales of the employees of the Supreme Court shall be fixed on the basis of their distinct personality, qualifications and the ardu- ous nature of work performed by them .  Junior Clerks and Class IV employees of the Su- preme Court have already been given the Punjab scales and the Central D.A. with effect from January 1, 1978 .  The parties are directed to maintain status quo as regards the scales of pay, allowances and interim relief, as on this day, till the framing of the rules by the Chief Justice of India  Class III and Class IV employees of the Supreme Court also receive the Punjab pay scales and the Central dearness allowance . The Attorney General says the Delhi High Court's decision is based on wrong  The Government amended the terms of reference of the Pay Commission to include officers and employees of the Supreme Court of India . The Committee of Judges had pointed out the functional differ- ences between  The Assistant and Deputy Registrars say they are subjected to invidious discrimination vis-a-vis the Section Officers . They say it is fair to deny the Supreme Court employees at least  Pay Commission's report was forwarded by the Government to the Registrar of the Supreme Court for his comments on the pay structure of Supreme Court employees as recommended by the Pay Commission . Committee of Judges  The Judges intended the Pay Commission to study all aspects of the matter in depth and make their recommendations to the Chief Justice of India to aid him in the discharge of his constitutional function under clause  The power of the President under Article 146 to grant or refuse approval tantamounts to a legislative function comparable in its nature, ambit and quality to the President's power under Article 111  Rules, whether made under the 542 Constitution or a statute, must be intra vires the parent law- under which power has been delegated . Rules are liable to be declared invalid if  Any arbitrary exercise of power by a public authority, whether or not it is in the nature of subordinate legisla- tion, is liable to be condemned as violative of Article 14 .  The constitutional process envisaged under Article 146(2) has not been completed . The Pay Commission's decision to refer the question to the Pay Commission has been referred to the Committee of Judges  The Chief Justice of India alone is competent to make, or autho- rise the making of the rules . The President must, upon submission to him of the Rules made by the Chief  The status quo as on this day as regards pay and allowances shall be main-tained . The interim orders of this Court dated 25.7.1986, 14.8.8 