 The State of Andhra Pradesh was constituted under the [States Reorganisation Act. 1956] consisting of two areas known as the 'Andhra Area', and the 'Telangana  Part-time village officers in the State of Andhra Pradesh as defined in section 2(d) thereof stood abolished with effect on and from the date of the commencement of the Ordinance  An ordinance passed under Article 123 or under Article 213 of the Constitution stands on the same footing as an Act of legislature . The Andhra Pradesh Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village  The petitioners have questioned the constitutional validity of the Andhra Pradesh Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Ordinance, 1984 (Ordinance No. 1 of 1984) The  There was not enough work for all village officers and that it was necessary to reorganise the village establishment by appointment of full-time officers . The Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh  The validity of the Tamil Nadu Abolition of Posts of Part-time Village Officers Ordinance, 1980 (Tamil Nadu Ordinance No. 10 of 1980) was upheld . The validity  Article 213 of the Constitution confers similar powers on the president in 519 relation to matters on which Parliament can make laws . Article 123 reads: "If at any time, except when  An ordinance made under the Government of India Act had the force of law as an Act passed by the Indian legislature but the power of making ordinances under it was subject to like restrictions as the  Under Article 123 of the Constitution the President can promulgate an ordinance on the advice of the Council of Ministers to meet the requirements of a situation when either House of Parliament is not in session  An ordinance promulgated under Article 123 or under Article 213 of the Constitution has the same force and effect as an Act of Parliament . The language of clause (2) of Article 123 and  An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non-application of mind, not the act of a Legislature . An ordinance promulgated under Article 213 of the Constitution has  The High Court rejected the contention relying upon the decision in Steavenson v. Oliveriver . The Ordinance purported to validate the elections to the Cuttack Municipality which had been  The rights created by this Ordinance are, in our opinion, very similar to the rights with which the court was dealing in the case of Steavenson and they must be held to 