 The power of the President to issue an ordinance under Article 123 of the Constitution is a legislative and not an executive power . The petitioner was detained under the provisions of the ordinance on the ground  An ordinance is as necessary for the peace and good government of the country as Parliament's power to legislate by passing laws . Constitution is what it says and not what one would like it  There is no internal contradiction between the provisions of Article 368(2) and those of section 1 (2) of the 44th Amendment Act . For determining the date with effect from which  Section 3 of the National Security Act cannot be struck down on the ground of their vagueness and certainty . Clause in section 3 of section 3 is not of any great certainty or defin  Section 3 of the 44th Amendment Act has not been brought into force by the Central Government in the exercise of its powers . Section 3 substitutes article 22(4) for the old article  Every person whose interests are adversely affected as a result of the proceedings which have a serious import, is entitled to be heard in those proceedings and be assisted by a friend . The deten  A provision like section 1(2) cannot be said to have empowered the executive to scotch an amendment of the Constitution passed by Parliament and assented to by the President . A  Ten members of the Parliament, one an Independent and the others belonging to various political parties in opposition applied for permission to intervene in the Writ Petition on the ground that since the ordinance-making  Shri R.K. Garg, appearing for the petitioners, challenges the power of the President to issue an ordinance depriving any person of his life or liberty . He contends that  In India, that power has a historical origin and the executive, at all times, has resorted to it freely as and when it considered it necessary to do so . Jawaharlal  Article 123 confers the power to promulgate ordinances in Chapter III of Part V of the Constitution . Article 213 confers similar power on the Governors of States to issue ordinances . The only  An ordinance, like a law made by the Parliament, is void to the extent of contravention of that limitation' An ordinance can be issued by the President provided that both Houses of the  Constitution makers had to take into account life's realities, says Shah J. Gopalan . Constitution makers thought it was necessary to equip president with legislative powers in urgent situations . Shah J  Shri Garg says that if ordinances are not excluded from the precious area of life and liberty covered by Article 21, it is the executive which will acquire the right to trample upon the  We must reject the contention that ordinance is not 'law' within the meaning of Article 21 of the Constitution . Shri Tarkunde argues that the power to issue an ordinance under  The doctrine of the political question was evolved in the United States of America on the basis of its Constitution which has adopted the system of a rigid separation of powers, unlike ours . The President  It is not for the courts to decide questions which are but of academic importance . Constitution does not impose by its terms any inhibition on the ordinance- making power .  There can be no doubt that personal liberty is a precious right, but liberty of individual has to be subordinated, within reasonable bounds, to the good of the people . Constitution makers had  England and America do not resort to preventive detention in normal times was known to our Constituent Assembly and yet it chose to provide for it, sanctioning its use for specified purposes .  The Constitution recognizes preventive detention as a permissible means of abridging the liberties of the people, though subject to the limitations imposed by Part III . The 44th Amendment of the Indian Constitution  The 44th Amendment Act received the assent of the President under Article 368 (2) on April 30, 1979 . Shri Tarkunde challenges the Central Government's failure to  No law of preventive detention can be valid unless it complies with Article 22 of the Constitution, particularly with clause (4) of that Article . Since the National Security Act does not provide  The Constitution stood amended in accordance with the terms of the 44th Amendment Act when the President gave his assent to that Act on April 30, 1979 . Article 368(2) lays  The power of amendment is conferred upon the Parliament by Article 368 (1), which provides that the Parliament may in exercise of its constituent power amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any  The three Privy Council decisions to which we have referred above were considered by this Court in Re Delhi Laws Act case, which is considered as a leading authority on the question of delegated legislation  It would be quite anomalous that the inaction of the executive should have the approval of the Parliament and yet we should show our disapproval of it by issuing a mandamus . The Court's  The 7th Amendment. 1956, fixed a specific date on which it was to come into force. The 13th Amendment, 1962, provided by section 1 (2) that it shall  The Court, speaking through Mathew, J.uphupheld the validity of section 22 of the Mysore Excise Act of 1965 . We are unable to appreciate that the constituent  Shri Jethmalani argues that the expressions 'defence of India' and 'relations of India with foreign powers' are so vague, general and elastic that even conduct which is  Vagueness and uncertainty of a law of preventive detention bears upon unreasonableness of that law . A person cannot be deprived of his liberty by a law which is nebulous and  In criminal law, the legislature frequently uses vague expressions like 'bring into hatred or contempt', 'maintenance of harmony between different religious groups' or 'likely to cause disharmony or  Clause (a) relates to committing or instigating any person to commit any offence punishable under the Essential Commodities Act, 10 of 1955, or under any other law for the time  Jethmalani attacked the constitutionality of the very National Security Act itself on the ground that it is a draconian piece of legislation which deprives people of their personal liberty excessively and unre  The Act, as a measure of preventive detention, cannot be challenged on the broad and general ground that such Acts are calculated to interfere unduly with the liberty of the people, we shall  Whatever smacks of punishment must be scruplously avoided in matters of preventive detention . Members of his household, preferably the parent, the child or the spouse, must be informed in  Shri Jethmalani also challenged the provisions of section 16 on the ground of their unreasonableness . Dr. Ghatate is that even if an officer has in fact  The distinction between the provisions of the amended and the unamended provisions of Article 22(4) in regard to the constitution of Advisory Boards is of great practical importance from the point of  The argument that section 9 of the National Security Act is bad for either of these reasons must fail . Section 9 provides for the constitution of Advisory Boards consisting of persons "who are, or  Counsel made an impassioned plea that 25 years of the Gopalan jurisprudence have desensitised the community to the perils of preventive detention . How much process  No person who is detained under any law, which provides for preventive detention, can claim the right to consult a legal practitioner of his choice or to be defended by him . Article 22(  Shri Jethmalani relied on the decision of the American Supreme Court in ozie Powell v. Alabama in which it was held that the right of hearing includes the right to the  Due process requires that the parolee be allowed the assistance of counsel in the parole revocation proceeding . It must be appreciated that the American decisions on the right to counsel turn largely on the due  It would be inappropriate to read any such meaning into the provisions of Article 22 . Permitting the detaining authority or the Government to appear before the Advisory Board with the aid of a legal  The right to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses was upheld in the other American cases also which counsel has cited . There is no fixed standard of natural justice, substantive or procedural,  The right of cross-examination depends upon the circumstances of each case and on the terms of the statute under which the matter is being enquired into . Just as there can be an effective  Dr. Ambedkar was of the opinion that the detenu should be given the right to cross-examine witnesses before the Advisory Board . The right of cross-examination is  Advisory Board is free to regulate its own procedure within the constraints of the Constitution and the statute . It would be open to it, in the exercise of that power, to limit the time  The Indian Constitution cannot be held at bay by jail officials 'dressed in a little, brief authority', says the Court . The most important right of the person who is imprisoned is to  The Constitution (Forty-Fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 received assent of the President on April 30, 1979 . Section 3 of the Amendment Act substitutes a new clause A for the  The National Security ordinance, 1980 has been challenged on a number of grounds, one of which is that the life and liberty of 360 person cannot be taken away by an ordinance because it is  An ordinance promulgated by the President under article 123 has the same force and effect as an Act of Parliament . Article states that an ordinance must be regarded as 'law' within the meaning  Parliament can confer on the President the power of the legislature of the State to make laws . The difference in the nature of the power exercised by the President under article 123 and under article 357 