 Residents of a prominent residential locality of the Municipality (petitioner) in their complaint under s. 133 Criminal Procedure Code to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate . The residents  Section 123 M.P. Municipalities Act 1961 has no saving clause when the municipal council is penniless . Section 133 Criminal Procedure Code authorises the prescription of a time-limit for  The Ratlam municipal town, like many Indian urban centres, is populous with human and sub-human species . The rich have bungalows and toilets, the poor live on pavements  The Magistrate's activist application of s. 133 Cr.P.C., for the larger purpose of making the Ratlam municipal body to do its duty and abate the nuisance by  The court was satisfied on the facts contained in their application dated 12-5- 72 and granted conditional order against non- applicants No. 1 and 2 u/s 133 of Cr.  Magistrate held in the High Court that the order was wrongly found unjustified by the Sessions Court, but rightly upheld by the High . He issued the following order which was wrongly . found  Criminal Procedure Code operates against statutory bodies and others regardless of the cash in their coffers, even as human rights under Part III of the Constitution have to be respected by the State .  Section 133 Cr.P.C. is categoric, although reads discretionary . Judicial discretion when facts for its exercise are present, has a mandatory import . Failure to comply with the direction  In India 'one man, one value' is the democracy of remedies and rich or poor the law will call to order where people's rights are violated . The neglect of the Malaria  The Magistrate had not adverted to the actual cost of the scheme nor the reasonable time that would be taken to execute it . We are willing to revise the order into a workable  The State Government will make available by way of loans or grants sufficient financial aid to the Ratlam Municipality to enable it to fulfil its obligations under this order . The State will realise that 