 Public Premises (Eviction of unauthorised occupants) Act, 1971, was challenged by a private limited company occupying a portion of the premises belonging to the United Commercial Bank . The  Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised occupants) Act was intra vires the Parliament, no further issue between parties survived . It was not necessary to consider whether the provisions of  The 1971 Act, in so far as they were made applicable to the premises of the respondent Bank, are intra vires and valid . All the legislation coming up for consideration in the present  A.P. State Raod Transport Corporation v.I.T.O.O [1964] 4 SCR 99; A. Parekh, D.H. P  It is not necessary in view of the facts and circumstances of the case to refer in detail to the reasons . I agree with my learned Brother that the appeal should be dismissed and the order  Appeal should be dismissed without any order as to cost S. RANGANATHAN, J. The first appellant is a private limited company . The company is occupying a portion of premises  There is no dispute that the premises in question in the present appeal is "public premises" within the meaning of the Act . The Bank had served a notice on the appellants under the  The 1971 Act is ultra vires Parliament in so far as it purports to affect the appellants' rights . The argument may not have been open in the case of the bank .  The position, indeed, is beyond the pale of controversy after the decisions of this Court in Bacha. F.Guzdarv. r. r . in Calcutta .  Federal Court in United Provinces v. Atiga Begum, [1940] F.C.R. 110 . Case concerned with interpretation of Entry 21 of List II in  The Judicial Committee concluded that the legislation was clearly covered by Entry 21 in List III of the 1935 Act . The key to item 21 is to be found in the opening word "land",  The impugned Act has the main purpose of giving relief to mortgagors by enabling them to obtain restitution of the mortgaged lands on terms less onerous than the mortgage deeds require  The Court upheld the legislation by reference to Entry 18 of List II as well as Entry 20 of List III ("Economic and Social planning") Reviewing the provisions of the Act in question,  The Bombay High Court was concerned with the applicability of the Bombay Rent Restriction Act (No. 57) of 1947 to contonment areas . The Supreme Court was, however,  The Bombay High Court was unable to affirm the view of A. Patel's case, which is based on the interpretation that Entry ' in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Government to  Atiqa Begum and Atma Ram concerned a legislation that clearly pertained to 517 land-in fact, land governed by systems of land tenure prevalent in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab  Dr. Chitale: Indu Bhushan cannot be taken as a decision that house tenancy legislation cannot come under Entry 18 of List II or Entries 6, 7 and 13  Dhanpal Chettiar's case was heard in the Supreme Court . The Supreme Court said that the subject matter of housing accommodation falls within the purview of the Concurrent List .  There are no special features that require placing buildings also in the State list . The problem of scarcity of house accommodation is a general feature all over the country thanks to India's post-independent  The Constitution in S. 31A contains a clue that expression like "estate" and "land tenures" have a special meaning in relation to land, connoting the relationship among  The court said that the preamble to the Urban Land Ceiling Act, 1971, does not support counsel's interpretation of Entry 18 . We may point out that quite a few (  The resolution of a conflict, if any, between the two will have to be in terms of Article 254 of the Constitution . This article reads: Inconsistency between laws made by  Section 2 of Bombay Act NoXXXVI of 1947 cannot prevail as against Section 7 of the Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act No. XXIV of 1946 as amended by the  Dr. Chitale argued that the provision in the 1971 Act appointing one of the officers of the respondent bank as the Estate officers is violative of Article 14 of the State Acts . 