 The appellant challenged the election of the respondent under s. 100(1)(d)(iv) read with s. 123(7) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951  The High Court held that the Symbols Order was not an order made under the Act and therefore s. 100(1)(d)(iv) was not attracted .  The High Court was not justified in directing that the averments in paragraphs, 4 to 18 of the petition be deleted on the ground that there was non-disclosure of material facts sufficient  The Symbol Order provides for specification, reservation, choice and allotment of symbols at elections in parliamentary and assembly constituencies . It is a matter of common knowledge that elections in our country are fought  The appellant filed an election petition challenging the election of the respondent under s. 100 (1) (d) (iv) read with s. 123 (7) of the Act .  It was alleged that after the respondent had been adopted as a candidate by the Indian National Congress (I), Jagmohan Singh made an effort to get that party's ticket for the seat  Election Symbols (Reservation & Allotment) Order, 1968 could not be spelled out, says High Court . High Court directed that paragraphs 4 to 18 of the election petition be  The Election Symbols Order is an order made under the Act . The averments in paragraphs 4 to 18 of the election petition were liable to be struck out under Order VI, r.  The purpose and object of the Symbols Order is to provide for specification, reservation, choice and allotment of symbols at elections in parliamentary and assembly constituencies, for the recognition of 715  The High Court was clearly in error in holding that the Symbols Order was not an order made under the Act . We are afraid, the argument is too tenuous to be accepted .  Symbols or emblems are not a peculiar feature of election law of India . The order passed by the High Court directing the striking out of paragraphs 4 to 18 of the election petition can  The High Court struck out paragraphs 4 to 18 of the election petition on the ground that they do not disclose any cause of action . But the High Court has cast on the appellant the burden  The High Court passed an order passed by the High Court could be justified under Order VI, r. 16 of the Code . That would depend on whether or not the election petition is in  Omission of a single material fact leads to an incomplete cause of action and the statement or plaint becomes bad . The distinction was brought out by Scott, L.J. in Bruce v  The High Court had the power to strike out the pleadings under Order VI, r. 16 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 . The contention cannot, in our opinion, be 