 The Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) ordinance, 1981 was promulgated on January 12, 1981 . It was repealed and replaced by the [Special Bearer  The Court of Appeal upholds the validity of The Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemption) Act, 1981 . Petitioners argued that the President has no power under Article  The President is invested with this legislative power only in order to enable the executive to tide over an emergent situation which may arise whilst The Houses of Parliament are not in session . If the  The Preamble of the Act makes it clear that the Act is intended to canalise for productive purposes black money which has become a serious threat to the national economy . The abundance of  The aim of the impugned Act is to induce those having black money to convert it into white money by making it available to the State for productive purposes, without granting in return any  The validity of a classification has to be judged with reference to The object of the legislation . The court would not have the necessary competence and expertise to adjudicate upon such an economic issue .  The immunities provided by the impugned Act are clearly for the benefit of those who have acquired the Bonds with black money . The Act promises anonymity and security for tax-evaders  The principle of reasonableness is an essential element of equality . No law can be struck down only on the ground that it is unethical . However, there cannot be and there never has  The Central Government has decided to issue at par certain bearer bonds to be known as the Special Bearer Bonds, 1991, of the face value of ten thousand rupees and redemption value,  The Court sitting in a Constitution Bench held that the 1956 Rules were not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1948 Act . The validity of anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance is  The 1956 Rules could not be faulted as being outside the power of the Central Government, the Court said . Section 29 reads: 'All rules made or purporting to have been made  Article 123 confers powers on the President to promulgate a law by issuing an Ordinance to enable the executive to deal with the emergent situation which might well include a situation created by  The President has legislative power under Article 123 to promulgate an Ordinance and this legis- 967 lative power is co-extensive with the power of Parliament to make laws  The latest and most complete exposition of the propositions relating to the applicability of Article 14 is to be found in the Judgment of one of us (Chandrachud, J. as  There may be crudities and inequities in complicated economic legislation but on that account alone it cannot be struck down as invalid . The courts have only the power to destroy, not to  There is considerable amount of black money, unaccounted and concealed? in the hands of a few persons 972? It is causing incalculable damage to the economy of the country  The 'Block Scheme' enabled the tax evaders to disclose suppressed income by paying 60% of the concealed income as tax and bringing the balance of 40% into their books . Subsequent  There is no immunity from taxation given to the black money which may be invested in Special Bearer Bonds . That money remains subject to tax with all consequential penalties, if it can be discovered  The Revenue would not be entitled to call upon the assessee to disclose the nature and source of acquisition of Special Bearer Bonds . In making the assessment, the investment in the Special Be  No person who has subscribed to or otherwise acquired Special Bearer Bonds is entitled to be entitled to a set-off or relief in any proceeding under the Income-Tax Act on the ground  The transferability of Special Bearer Bonds against disclosed or 'white' money is thus, from a practical point of view, completely excluded . It is unusual for anyone to acquire Special Be  If Special Bearer Bonds are sold and the sale proceeds are utilised in meeting expenditure, the assessee would not be precluded by section 4 clause (c) from explaining the source  It is extremely unlikely that Special Bearer Bonds would remain uncashed after the date of maturity . But it would be equally improbable that anyone should want to purchase them after they do not yield  We do not see why anyone should want to invest his white money in subscribing to or acquiring special bearer bonds which yield only 2 per cent simple interest per annum . The investment of white  The idea of issuing special bearer bonds for the purpose of unearthing black money was not a brain wave which originated for the first time in the mind of the legislature in the year 1981  Five writ petitions question the constitutional validity of the Special Bearer Bonds (Immunities and Exemptions) Act, 1981 . The Act received the President's assent on March 27  The Direct Taxes Enquiry Committee set up by the Government of India in 1970 with Shri K.N. Wanchoo, retired Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India,  The Act has been challenged mainly on the ground that it infringes Art. 14 of the Constitution . The immunities provided by the impugned Act are clearly for the benefit of those  The West Bengal Act was to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences . The object, as already noticed, is to canalise black money for productive purposes to make economic and social  Bose J. in Sarkar's case says much of the same thing in West Bengal Special Courts Act of 1950 says much .  The Act promises anonymity and security for tax-evaders . No question can be asked as to the nature and source of acquisition or possession of the Bonds . The Bonds can be transferred freely  The Act puts a premium on dishonesty without even a justi- 1001 fication of necessity- that the situation in the country left no option . No law can be struck down 