 Desai, D.A., RANJIT SINGH REDDY, O. CHINNAPPA (J) CITATION: 1980 AIR 326; 1980  Officers of TISCO made serious allegations against the investigation made by the C.I.D. under the supervision of respondent 3 . The Chief Secretary directed the investigating officer respondent 4 to  An officer-in-charge of the Police Station may exercise the same powers, throughout the local area to which they are appointed as may be exercised by such officer within the limits of his  It is only when a subordinate authority subject to superintendence is discharging duties and functions of a quasi-judicial character under a statute that the inhibition of abdication of such power  Section 3 of the Act deals with the powers of the State Government to direct further investigation into the case . The High Court was in error in holding that the High Court lacked the power to  The power of the Police to investigate into a cognizable offence is ordinarily not to be interfered with by the Judiciary . Investigation of an offence is the field exclusively reserved for the executive through the  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DESAI, J.-Reverence and anxiety to the same degree, if not more, to shoot at sight even a remote intrusion into the  Shri Rusi Modi, resident representative of TISCO at Patna appears to have written a personal letter to Shri Saran Singh, the then Chief Secretary of the State of  A full bench of the High Court by its judgment dated May 14, 1979, quashed the order, inter alia, holding that the direction given by the Chief Secretary with the conc  The use of the word 'rank' in s. 36 29 of the Code comprehends the hierarchy of police officers . Section 156 enables the officer in charge of a police station to investigate  State of Bihar is governed by the Indian [Police Act, 1861], because it has not enacted any Police Act of its own . It was contended that State Government has no power to direct  An Inspector of Police was served a notice by the Inspector-General of Police, Bihar, to show cause why he should not be dismissed . The delinquent preferred an appeal to the Government which  There is nothing in the Act to indicate such a narrow construction of the word 'superintendence' Sub-s. (8) of s. 173 was pressed into service to show  Section 3 of the Act deals with the powers of the State Government to direct further investigation into the case . Power to direct investigation or further investigation is entirely different from the method and procedure of  It appears that TISCO has a special preference for retired highly placed State and Union level officers and attracts them on salary which none of them drew throughout his service . The coincidence, if  The High Court said the entrustment of the case for investigation to Vigilance Department is rather peculiar and unconventional, as unwarranted and unsustainable on the facts hereinabove narrated and discussed .  The High Court was, therefore, in our opinion, clearly in error in casting aspersions on the Chief Secretary . Investigation of an offence is the field exclusively reserved for the executive through  There is a well defined and well demarcated function in the field of crime detection and its subsequent adjudication between the police and the Magistrate . The functions of the judiciary and the  High Court in exercise of the extra- ordinary jurisdiction committed a grave error by making observations on seriously disputed questions of facts taking its cue from affidavits . High Court interfered at the stage where  D.K. State Appeal allowed.  any final order in the cognate appeal (Criminal Appeal 300/79) preferred by respondent 6 . 