 Industrial Dispute-Bonus-Available surplus-Full Bench formula . Depreciation for double shift, income-tax, return on working capital, amounts required for rehabilitation, contingency reserve and development  The Tribunal cannot fix such a high figure of bonus as to leave insufficient funds in the bands of the company and make it difficult to provide for these two statutory reserves . Mathura Parsh  The Tribunal awarded three months bonus amount to Rs. 73,000 which works to 24,333 per month . The available surplus found by the Tribunal was Rs. 1,29,248  Appeal by special leave challenges the Award made against it by the Industrial Tribunal (111), Allahabad in Adjudication Case No. 10 of 1962 . The dispute between the Appellant  The return on working capital was disallowed on two grounds; the calculation of the working capital has been made on the basis of the assets and rehabilitation as they stood on the closing day of  The principles enunciated by the First Full Bench had been approved in U. P. Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen . It was pointed out that in determining  The formula has been generally accepted by this Court in several reported decisionsthe question about the adequacy, propriety or validity of its provisions has not been examined . It is for the  A return from 2% to 4% is allowable according to the industry, taking into consideration any special circumstances which may justify a claim for a higher interest . The utilisation of the reserves  Employers would be entitled to a rebate of Income-tax on the amount of bonus paid to his workmen has also to be taken into account and in many cases it plays a significant  The balance sheet and profit, and loss account are also prepared by the Company's officers . The labour has no concern in it. When so much depends on this item, the principles of  The case referred to above was dealing with an enquiry into the misconduct of the Public Servant in which he complained he was not permitted to cross-examine . It however turned out  The Tribunal said that the veracity of the statement Ex. 16 is also doubtful because the employers have not produced anything before it to show the total running hours of the boilers or turbines  The quantum of statutory depreciation was in controversy and it was not possible to calculate the correct amount of Income'-tax to be calculated in the absence of evidence . The case was remanded to  The case of the Appellant is that the requirement of the Undertaking in this regard is Rs. 15,66,496/- The assets . required to be replaced have been divided  The amount found by the Tribunal in this regard is Rs. 1,29,248/- and if Rs. 55,233/- is to be provided there will be an available surplus 