 1970 (3) SCR 530; 1970 (1) SCC 248 (10 February 1970) 10/02/1970 SHAH, J.C.C., J.M  Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969-Sections 4, 5, 6, 15(2) and Schedule II- Fundamental rights  The petitioner held shares in some of the named Banks, had accounts, current and fixed deposit, in these Banks and was also a Director of one of the Banks . He challenged the validity  The State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v. The Commercial Tax Officer, Visakhapatnam & Ors., [1964] 4 S.C.R. 99 and Tata  The extent of protection against impairment of a fundamental right is determined not by the object of the legislature nor by the form of the action, but by its direct operation upon the individual's t  The validity of "law" which authorises deprivation of property must be adjudged by the application of the same tests . Clause (6) of Art. 19 consists of two parts :  Akadasi Padhan v. State of Orissa, [1963] Supp. 12 S.C.R. 691, applies to all laws relating to the carrying on by  The Act violated the guarantee of compensation under Art. 31(2) in that it provided for giving certain amounts determined according to principles which were not relevant in the determination of compensation of the  Court in Vajravelu Mudaliar v. Kamalabai Harjiwandas Parekh & Ors., [[1967] INSC 202; [[1968] 1  Trego v Hunt, [L.R.C. ar that exclusion of potential value amounted to giving inadequate compensation and was not fraud on power had no application . The Constitution 'gu  The Act in its entirely had to be declared void . Sections 4, 5 and 6 and Sch. 11 are not severable from the rest of the Act . The only way in which  The words "other things" 'appearing in cls (a) to (n), point to the inescapable conclusion that the various types of business mentioned in the cls  Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955, related entirely to acquisition or requisition of property by the State . Art. 31(2), after the Constitution . Fourth Amendment . Act, after the  Section 15(2) of the Act allowed the named Banks to carry on business other than banking . The acquisition of the undertaking did not offend Art.14 because of intelligible differentia  There is no infraction of Art. 31(2) and the owner cannot impeach it on the ground of "just equivalent" of the property acquired . The relevancy is  There was no case in the petition that there was land with building side by side with vacant land . The principles set out in the Act was relevant to the determination of compensation .  The Act contained enough guidelines for reaching the objectives set out in the preamble . The government could give directions only in regard to policy involving public interest . The Central Government and the Governor  There was till 1949 no comprehensive legislation governing banking business and banking institutions . The Banking Companies Act 10 of 1949 (later called "The Banking Regulation Act") was amended by Act 58 of 1968  There were in June 1969 14 commercial banks operating in India each having deposits exceeding Rs. 50 crores . The total number of commercial banking institutions was reduced from 566 in 1951 to 89  Corporations styled in the ordinance "corresponding new banks" shall be established, each such corporation having paid up capital equal to the paid-up capital of the named bank in relation  The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act 22 of 1969 was enacted on August 9, 1969 . Under the Ordinance the entire undertaking of every named commercial  A major change is made in the principles for determining compensation set out in Sch. 11 . The value of any land or buildings to be taken into account in valuing the assets is to  A company registered under the Companies Act is a legal person, separate and distinct from its individual members . A shareholder has merely an interest in the Company arising under its Articles of Association, measured  A similar view was also taken in Chiranjit Lal Chowduri v. the Union of India .  The power of the President is vested in Art. 123 of the Constitution vested in the President . Article 123 provides: "An Ordinance promulgated under this Article shall have the same force  Palkhivala contended that the Presi- dent is not made by Art. 123 the final arbiter of the existence of the conditions on which the power to promulgate an  The object of Act 22 of 1969 is to transfer the undertaking of each named bank and to vest it in the corresponding new bank set up with authority to carry on banking and other business .  The expression "banking" is not defined in any Indian statute except the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . The Parliament may legislate in respect of the business of banking as defined in S  The Parliament is competent to legislate in respect of that business under Entry 45 List I . There is no evidence that the banks were carrying on non-banking business .  The impugned Act did not encroach upon any entry in the State List . By Act-22 of 1969 the corresponding banks are entitled to engage in business of banking and non-  The expression "property" in Entry 42 List III has a wide connotation, and it includes not only assets, but the organisation, liabilities and obligations of a going concern as a unit  The guarantee under Art. 19(1)(f) does not protect merely an ab- stract right to property: it extends to concrete rights to property as well Swami Motor Transport  The majority of the Court (Kania C.J., and Patanjali Sastri, Mahajan, Mukherjea & Das, JJ) held that Art  The deprivation of personal liberty may entail the loss or abridgement of many of the rights described in article 19(1), in so far as they 573 relate to rights attached to  Bhanji Munji's case arose under Art. 31 before it was amended by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act . It was held that the substantive provisions of a law relating to  The expression "law" in the two clauses had therefore different meanings . It was for the first time (obiter dicta apart) in The State of Madhya (1) [  Part III of the Constitution weaves a pattern of guarantees on the texture of basic human rights . We are unable to agree that Arts. 19 ( 1 ) (f ) and 31 (  The validity "of law" which authorises deprivation of property must be adjudged by the application of the same tests . A citizen may claim in an appropriate case that the law authorising  Clause (6) as amended by the Constitution (First -Amendment) Act, 1951, reads "Nothing in sub-clause (g) of the said clause shall affect the  The validity of a law creating a State monopoly which "indirectly impinges on any other right" cannot be challenged on the, -round that it imposes restrictions which are not reasonable  There is no satisfactory proof in support of the plea that the enactment of Act 22 of 1969 was not in the larger interest of the nation, but to serve political ends, i.e  The Court has the power to strike down a law on the ground of want of authority, but the Court will not sit in appeal over the policy of the Parliament in enacting a law  The Court held that the Ordinance and the Act in effect deprived the Company of its property within the meaning of Art. 31 without compensation . It was observed by Mahajan, J  Investment in bank- shares regarded in India, especially in the shares of larger banks, as a safe investment on attractive terms with a steady return .  Banks are selected for acquisition because they have "larger business and wider coverage" in comparison with other banks not selected, and had also larger organization, better managerial resources and employees better trained  Sub-clause (2A) in substance provides a definition of "compulsory acquisition or requisitioning of property" Existence of a public purpose and provision for giving compensation  The British Parliament is supreme and its powers are not subject to any constitutional limitations . But the British Parliament has rarely exercised power to take property without payment of the cash value of the property taken  Article 31(2) was amended with effect from April 27, 1955, by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955 . The expression "compensation" in Art. 31(  Court held in Mrs. Bela Banerjee's case that by the guarantee of the right to compensation for compulsory acquisition under Art. 31(2) before it was amended by the  In Shantilal Mangaldas's case, the Court held that the compensation provided by the Madras Act, according to the principles specified, was not the full market value at the  The science of valuation of property recognizes several principles or methods for determining the value to be paid as compensation to the owner for loss of his property . Compensation being the equivalent in terms of money  Constitution guarantee covers acquisition of "property movable or immovable including, any interest in, or in any company owning any commercial or industrial undertaking"  The value determined by excluding important components of the undertaking, such as the goodwill and value of the unexpired period of leases, will not, in our judgment, be compensation for the undertaking  This Court in State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga and Ors., held that cash and choses in action are not  The use of the expression "plinth area" appears to be unfortunate. What was intended is "floor area"  The Constitution guarantees a right to compensation- an equivalent in money of the property compulsorily acquired . The Court held that exclusion of potential value amounted to giving inadequate compensation and was not a  The Constitution guarantees a right to compensation- an equivalent of the property (1) [[1964] INSC 214]; [[1965] 1 S.C.R 614.] V.  There are 89 commercial banks operating in India, 73 are Scheduled and 16 are non-Scheduled banks . The State Banks have 27 per cent of the aggregate deposit of all commercial  The State Banks have 2454 branches, namely, 30 per cent of the branch offices . The 36 scheduled banks which are outside the 1969 Ordinance and the 1969 Act have 1324 offices  The Act of 1969 by reason of section 1(2) thereof is deemed to have come into force on 19 July, 1969 . The petitioner Rustom Cavasjee Cooper is a share  Court dealt with retrospective legislations in the cases of M/s. West Ramnad Electric Distribution Company Ltd. v. State of Madras(1) and State of Mys  The words 'prohibit sale or mortgage' in section 298 of the Government of India Act, 1935 were construed to mean prospective or future prohibition as the words used plainly refer to things or  Article 31(2A) enacts that where a law does not provide for the transfer of the ownership or right to possession of any property to the State or to a corporation owned or  The view in Gopalan's case(') was again applied by this Court in State of Bombay v Banji Munji and Anr. (2) also a pre-Am  Kochuni's case(') was decided after the amendment of Article 31 and that was emphasised by Subba Rao, J. to establish that Article 3 1 ( 1 ) which dealt  The West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 challenged the validity of the Act by a writ petition filed in the High Court of Calcutta on the plea that it  Article 31 provides for acquisition or requisition with authority (1) [[1967] 2 S.C.R. 949.]                (2) [[1950] INSC 14;  The word 'banking' was defined for the first time in the 1949 Act as meaning the acceptance for the purpose of lending or investments of deposits of money from the public repayable on  Section 277G of the Indian Companies Act prescribes that the memorandum must be limited to the activities mentioned in section 277F . Section 277 however defined `banking company' but not '  The contention that the four disputed businesses are not banking businesses is not supportable either on logic or on principle when businesses mentioned in the sub-clauses of section 6(1)  The Indian Companies Act, 1913 did not define banking company or banking business though various sections, namely, 4, 133, 136, 138 and 145 and Schedule Form G referred to banking companies  The business of guarantee is in the modern commercial word practically indictly connected with a bank and forms a part of the business of the bank . Agency is first in the general form of  The failure of Travancore National & Quilon Bank Ltd. in 1938 and the subsequent banking crisis in South India posed a big question as to the desirability of better legislation  Entry 42 in List III is acquisition and requisitioning of property . Entry 45 in List 1 is 'banking' Entry 43 deals with incorporation, regulation and winding up of trading corporations  The word 'undertaking' is used in various statutes of ourcountry, viz ; the [Indian Electricity Act, 1910], (sections 6, 7, 7A), Indian Companies Act  Ranojirao Shinde & Anr. is an authority for the proposition that money cannot be acquired under Article 31(2). The impugned Act in Rano  The words 'in particular' in Article 19(6) were held to indicate that restrictions imposed on the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art.19(1)(g) which are reasonable and  If as a result of acquisition, the bank will complain of lack of immediate resources to carry on these businesses the Act provides compensation and the existing bank will devise ways and means for carrying on  The Preamble to the Act of 1969 states that the object of the Act is "to serve better the needs of the development of the economy in conformity with national policy and objectives"  The State shall carry on business to the exclusion, complete or partial, of the 14 banks . These 14 banks are not in the same class as other scheduled or non- scheduled Indian banks  There has to be a line of demarcation somewhere and it is reasonable that these 14 banks which are in a class by themselves because of their special features in regard to deposit, credit  After the Constitution Fourth Amendment Act the question of adequacy of compensation is not justiciable it was said by counsel for the petitioner that the only question for Courts is whether the law aimed  The Bombay Town Planning Act of 1950 came up for consideration in the case of Shantilal Mangaldas . There was a challenge to the Bombay Act of 1955 on the ground of infringement  In Shantilal Mangaldas's case, Shah, J.also said that the compensation fixed or determined on principles specified by the legislature cannot be challenged on the indefinite plea that it  Just compensation cannot be inadequate and anything which is impeached as unjust or unfair is impinging on adequacy . Just equivalent cannot be the criterion in finding out whether the principles are relevant to  Second Schedule of the Act of 1969 deals with the principles of compensation for the property . Compensation to be paid shall be equal to the sum total of the value of assets calculated in accordance with  Explanation 2 in Part 1 which relates to finding out ascertained value of building enacts that where building is wholly occupied 12 times the rent at which the building may be expected to let  The 14 banks carried on business under licence by reason of section 22 of the Act of 1949\. The concept of sale in such a situation is unreal . The possibility of nationalisation of undert  The power of promulgating Ordinance of 1969 was challenged by contending that the satisfaction of the President under Article 123 was open to challenge in a court of law .  The power under Article 123 relates to policy and to an emergency when immediate action is considered necessary and if an objective test is applied the satisfaction of the President will be shorn of the power  Barium Chemicals(') and Rohtas Industries Ltd.(') turned on the interpretation of section 237 of the Companies Act and executive acts thereunder . The language used in that  There is no allegation of Mala fide. The fact that the Ordinance was passed shortly before the Parliament session began does not show any mala fide. It was said that circumstances were 