 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SAWANT, J.- The respondent-Orient Paper Mills (for short `Mills') purchases bamboos as raw material under a  Section 19(6) provides that no notified agricultural produce or any product processed therefrom shall be removed out of the market proper except in accordance with a permit issued by the market committee .  The High Court relied upon a decision of the same Court in Miscellaneous Petition No. 4063 of 1986 decided on 12-1- 1988 and allowed the writ petition .  The Court referred to the decision of the Australian High Court in Matthews v Chicory Marketing Board . There 'tax' is defined as a compulsory exaction of money by public authority for public  There is really no generic difference between a tax and a fee, and the taxing power of a State may manifest itself in three different forms known respectively as special assessments, fees and taxes .  The legislature has power to enact appropriate retrospective legislation declaring levies as fees by denuding them of the characteristics of tax . It was observed further that a fee does not cease to be of  The Court culled the following principles from the conspectus of various authorities on the subject: (SCR pp. 1243-1244 : SCC pp. 434-  Every market committee was obliged under sub-section (2)(a) of Section 27 of that Act to pay out of its fund to the marketing board as contribution such percentage of its income  A Bench of three learnedJudges considered the validity of a levy of market fee under the Kerala Abkari Act, 1967 . The Court observed that it was increasingly realised that the .  The Court held by referring to Kewal Krishan Puri case9 that there was no substance in the contention of the petitioner that since the market committees do not provide any additional facilities  An overall view has to be taken in dealing with the question whether there is quid pro quo . The Court held that in the guise of a fee, the legislation imposed a tax .  The Court then held that the levy for the fund was created to expend for the purposes enumerated under Section 6(5) of the Act of the Constitution . The amount of fee levied  The test of quid pro quo is not to be satisfied with close or proximate relationship in all kinds of fees . A good and substantial portion of the fee must be shown to be  On behalf of the appellant-Committees, their income and expenditure account for the five years, viz., 1985-86 to 1989-90 has been annexed to the appeal memo . The  The market committees are required to contribute to the Market Committee Fund constituted under Section 38 of the Act . The said fund is to be utilised for the purposes mentioned in Section 39 of the  The High Court upheld the legality of the fees levied for the following purposes stated in the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 . The fees are meant for the benefit of all the buyers  The bamboos were purchased by them not for sale but for being used for manufacture of paper . There was nothing in the return filed by the State Government to show that any services were  The High Court was in error in holding that the levy of market fees in the present case was not legal . The provision is enabling and does not prevent the Committee itself from collecting the fee 