 There were six original proceedings initiated by various parties which gave rise to these civil appeals, special leave petitions and transferred cases before this Court . In the suit was also filed praying that in the  In the appeal preferred by the plaintiff before the Allahabad High Court, an order was passed by the High Court on 2nd March, 1987, appointing Shri M.P. W  NTC filed a civil suit in the District Court Kanpur seeking declaration of its title in respect of the shrubbery property in Kanpur . The court refused any interlocutory injunction  The words in the statute must Prima facie be given their ordinary meaning, the Court said .  The Court could not find that there was any special intention to exclude the shares in this case . Contemporanea Expositio is a well-settled principle or doctrine  The shares vested in the Central Government even if sections 3 and 4 were read in conjunction with sections 7 and 8 of the Act on the well-settled principles . The expression 'in  Defendant No. 2 was directed to enter the name of defendant No. 1, namely, NTC in its register of members and to treat the said defendant . 1 as its share-  The Corporation of the City of Nagpur v. Its Employees, [[1960] INSC 43], [1960] 2 SCR 942], [1940] Appeal Cases 1014  There were six original proceedings initiated by various parties which gave rise to these civil appeals, special leave petitions and the transferred cases to this Court . The judgment was delivered by SABYAS  Swadeshi Polytex Limited was set to hold its 17th annual general meeting on 9th March, 1987 . The meeting would be held under the Chairmanship of Shri Jaswant  Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing Company filed a civil writ petition No. 2214 of 1987 in the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) praying, inter alia, for stay  It was clarified to the Parliament that the shares were distinct from the undertakings of the company whose management was taken over . The fact that 3,50,000 shares had been pledged in  It is true by the IDR Act only management was taken over, but a further point was sought to be built up on behalf of the petitioners that the Act in question was passed  Shri Nariman submitted that compensation payable under the Act was not enough to pay all the dues falling in Part I . Government would have to pay a further sum of Rs. 15 cro  The public purposes mentioned in the Act with reference to Article 39(b) and (c) related to the acquisition of only the textile undertakings of Swadeshi Cotton Mills and not  The scope of the vesting provisions contained in section 3 of the Act would have to be determined per force of its own language employed by Parliament and not with reference to what transpired either before  The expression "forming part of" according to the learned Solicitor General is merely descriptive of what is actually vested under the vesting provision . The true effect and purport of these  References 987 may be made to State of West Bengal v. Union of India, [1964] 1 S.C.R. 371 at 379, 380, 381, 38  The properties which stood vested in the Central Government with effect from 1.4.1985 already "formed part of" the textile undertakings . The meaning of the expression "pertaining to  It was submitted that these documents are definitely relevant as they would throw light on the merits of the case . The documents in question which are sought for do not relate to the enacting history  The objects and purposes of the person who initiated the Bill are not admissible as aids to construction . We reiterate that no officer of the Department can speak for the Parliament even after the Act  The documents sought for are not relevant for the purpose for which they were sought for . The notings of the various officials in the files were not before the Parliament . Members of Parliament had  In this connection, learned Attorney General drew our attention to an unreported decision in The Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving Mills . This resulted ultimately in Sitaram Mills's  The words "arising out of" have been used in the sense that it comprises purchase of shares and lands from income arising out of the Kanpur undertaking . The word "pertain  The deeming provision of section 4(1) amplifies and enlarges both the limbs of the vesting section, being section 3(1). The definition of section is read into  The words in the statute must, prima facie, be given their ordinary meaning . It must be emphasised that interpretation must be in consonance with the Directive Principles of State Policy  The shares held in SPL themselves were the subject matter of both pledge and attachment to secure loans from the U.P. State Government of about Rs.66 lacs for payment of wages  The shares would still vest in the Central Government under the second limb of section 4(1) of the Act since the shares were bought out of the income of the textile mills and were  The shares in question are vested in NTC and it has right over the said 34 per cent of the shareholdings . The immovable properties, namely, the Bungalow No  The 17th annual general meeting should be held in accordance with law to be presided over by Shri Jaswant Singh recognising NTC as the rightful owner of the disputed shares . 