 1989 (2) SCC 574; 1989 (1) JT 70; 1989 SCALE 812 (30 March 1989) SHETTY, K.J. (J  The Censors Board should exercise considerable circum- spection on movies affecting morality or decency of our people and cultural heritage of the country . The moral values in particular, should not be  There is no utterance in the film threatening to overthrow the Govt. by unlawful or unconstitutional means . The film seems to suggest that the existing method of reservation on the basis of caste  "Ore Oru Gramathile" can be summarised as follows: "A Brahmin widower, Shankara Sastry, has a talented daughter Gayathri . He  "India is One" is a hollow-appeal, which in effect touches caste sensitivity of the Brahmin forward caste . Majority opined that the theme of the film is on the  The framework of our Constitution differs from the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution . Article 19(1)(a) of India guarantees to all citizens the right to freedom of speech  The First Amendment does not permit any prior restraint, since the guaranty of free speech is in unqualified terms . This essential difference was recognised by Douglas, J., with whom Black,  K.A. Abbas, a noted Indian journalist and film producer produced a short documentary film called "A tale of Four Cities" Abbas applied to the Board of Film Censors for  The High Court has found fault with the Constitution of the First Revising Committee . The Committee was constituted hurriedly and its constitution by "delegate Board Member" was illegal and without authority  The film has been accused of spreading 'Kulachar' which is 'Poisonous message' to the depressed classes not to educate their children . The song contains references to Kam  High Court criticises comments on Dr. Ambedkar made by Sastry and Karuppayee in a Tamil film . The High Court said the comments were 'offensive' and  'Bharat Matha' is now in the hands of politicians, who are instigating the masses on the basis of caste and language, etc., the High Court remarked . The  There must be freedom of thought and the mind must be ready to receive new ideas, to critically analyse and examine them . Movie is the legitimate and the most important medium in which issues of  Brandies argued that the guaran- tees of freedom of speech and of the press are measures adopted by the people as the ultimate rulers in order to retain control over the Government .  The writer of an article in a newspaper was convicted for an offence under the Press (Emergency Powers) Act, 1931 . He had suggested the people to follow the example of China by rising  Tamil Nadu Government says film hurt the sentiments of people belonging to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes . It is the duty of the State to protect the freedom of expression since 