 Adoption of Indian children by foreign parents is subject of a petition to the Supreme Court . The petition alleged that Indian children are being forced to live in a foreign orphanage for want of  There is no statutory enactment in our country providing for adoption of a child by foreign parents or laying down the procedure which must be followed in such a case . The High Courts of Bombay,  The biological parents should be helped to understand all the implications of adoption including the possibility of adoption by a foreigner . Biological parents should not be subjected to any du du in making a du in  The biological parents should not be induced or encouraged to take a decision before the birth of a child or within a period of three months from the date of birth . Biological parents must have reasonable  Every recognised social or child welfare agency must maintain a register in which the names and particulars of all children proposed to be given in inter-country adoption through it must be entered . The child  The biological parents of the child would then come forward and oppose the application of the prospective adoptive parent for guardianship . Biological parents would then know who is the person taking the child in adoption  Even children 803 above the age of seven years may be given in inter-country adoption but their wishes may be ascertained if they are in a position to indicate any preference . The  This letter was treated as a writ petition and by an Order dated 1st September, 1982 . The Indian Council of Social Welfare was the first to file its written submissions in response to the  The Adoption of Children Bill, 1980 was intended to provide for a uniform law of adoption applicable to all communities including the Muslims . The Bill was introduced in the Lok 807 Sabha eight  The District Court granted permission to eight specified institutions or organisations to file affidavits or statements placing relevant material before the Court in regard to the question of adoption of Indian children by foreign parents .  Children are a "supremely important national asset" and the welfare of the entire community, its growth and development, depend on the health and well-being of its children . The  The Adoption of Children Bill, 1980 is now pending in Parliament and if enacted, it will provide a uniform law of adoption applicable to all communities in India excluding the muslim community .  If it is not possible to find suitable adoptive parents for the child within the country, it may become necessary to give the child in adoption to foreign parents rather than allow the child to grow  The Economic and Social Council as also the Commission for Social Development have tried to evolve social and legal principles for the protection and welfare of children given in inter-country adoption . The primary purpose  Draft guidelines of procedure concerning inter-country adoption were formulated by the International Council on Social Welfare in 1981 . They were approved at the Workshop held in Brighton, U.K. on 4  The report on the family study which must be made in the community where the applicants are residing, shall include details of the following: Identifying information about parents and other members of the family  It is essential that in inter-country adoption child is given the same legal status and rights of inheritance, as if she/he had been born to the adoptive parents in marriage . The  The procedure to be followed by the court in disposing of such application is laid down by three High Courts in the country with a view to protecting the interest and safeguarding the welfare of  In all such cases, the Court should issue notice to the Indian Council of Social Welfare (175, Dadabhai Naroji Road, Bombay- 828 400001) and  The child acquires the same status as a natural born child with the same rights of inheritance and succession as also the foreign parent adopting it . Adoption in a foreign country is bound to  Every application from a foreigner desiring to adopt a child must be sponsored by a social or child welfare agency recognised by the government of the country in which the child is being adopted . The  Every application of a foreigner for taking a child in adoption must be accompanied by a home study report . The social or child welfare agency sponsoring such application should also send along with it a recent  The Indian Council of Social Welfare has also given a list of government recognised organisations or agencies dealing in inter-country adoption in foreign countries . It should not be difficult for the Government of India  The Indian Council of Social Welfare and the Indian Council for Child Welfare are two social or child welfare agencies operating at the national level and recognised by the Government of India . But apart from these  An application for appointment as guardian can only be processed by a recognised social or child welfare agency . Unrecognised institution, centre or agency which has a child under its care would have to  An Indian child in adoption must be routed through a recognised social or child welfare agency . The practice of accepting a general approval of the foreigner to adopt any child should not be allowed . The  Many of the social or child welfare agencies running homes for children have little financial resources of their own and have to depend largely on voluntary donations . If any maintenance or medical expenses are incurred by  We do not think that if a child is relinquished by its biological parents or is an orphan or destitute or abandoned child in its parent State, there should be any objection to a  Even children between the ages of 3 and 7 years may be able to assimilate themselves in the new surroundings without any difficulty . Even children past the age of 7 years have been happily integrated  Adoption of Children Bill No. 208 of 1980 is being followed by the courts in Delhi as a result of practice instructions issued by the High Court of Delhi . Foreigners who have taken  These are the principles and norms which must be observed in giving a child in adoption to foreign parents . The adoption of children by foreign parents need not wait until social or child welfare agencies are  The child's age, sex, age and location of the child are included in the child's care . The child is being looked after by the parents of a child in need . 