 Renusagar, a 100% subsidiary of Hindalco, was incorporated in March, 1964 . The High Court allowed the writ petition, holding that the impugned order of the  All the steps to set up the power plant in Renusagar and its expansion were taken by Hindalco . The price of electricity was determined according to the cash needs of Renus  The ghost of the case of Aron Salomon v. A.Salomon & Co. Ltd., still visits frequently the hounds of Company Law but the veil has been pierced in  The High Court was right only to the limited extent that all the relevant considerations must be taken into account . Hindalco had made profits much more than it had before the imposition of the  Hindalco must be given the benefit of the rate applicable to its own source of generation from Renusagar plant. [680D-F] Per S. Ranganathan,  Uttar Pradesh is the second appellant, the Secretary of the Department of Energy, Lucknow . The first appellant is the State of Uttar Pradesh impleaded through the Chief Secretary to the Chief  There are four respondents in this appeal . The first respondent is Renusagar Power Company Ltd. The second respondent is M/s Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd.  The amendment Act repealed the provisions of the U.P. Electricity (Duty) (Amendment) ordinance, 1959 . It provided that a duty was to be determined at such rate  The electricity duty shall not exceed thirty-five per cent of the rate charged . The State Government may, in the public interest, either fix 639 different rates of electricity duty in relation  The U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952 was enacted on 4th December, 1952 . With effect from 1st September, 1970 the electricity duty on industrial consumption would  Renusagar Power Company Ltd. was granted sanction under section 28 of the [Indian Electricity Act, 1910], to engage in the business of supply of electricity to respondent No. 2 Hind  The State Government granted exemption from payment of electricity duty on energy consumed by any person from his own source of generation . Exemption was also granted on the energy sold to a consumer establishing a  There was an agreement on 24th April, 1980 between the State Electricity Board and the Hindalco regarding 85 M.W. main supply . Rate of 28.42 paise per  Renusagar Power Co a 100% subsidiary of Hindalco was allowed to expand its aluminium production capacity from time to time on the condition that it would instal its own power plant  The only object and purpose of power plant was to supply power and suit the requirements of Hindalco . Renusagar was set up as part and parcel of Aluminium Expansion Scheme .  Hindalco was allowed to expand its aluminium production on the condition of its setting up its own power plant which was part and parcel of the expansion scheme . All negotiations, requests for permission  The High Court's Judgment dated 26.9.84 in the present proceedings. The impact of the imposition of duty on energy @1 paise per unit would be an increase in the  The third generation unit in Renusagar commenced in November 1981 and the fourth generating unit in April 1983 . Hindalco consumes about 255 MW power out of which 250 MW comes from Ren  Under the Electricity Duty Act itself, it was the case of the State that Renusagar generation was by Hindalco for its own use within the meaning of section 9 of the Duty  A person who engaged another person to generate electrical energy exclusively for and on behalf of his complete control and who consumes all the electrical energy so generated. Accordingly it was urged that such a distinction  Renusagar as the power plant of Hindalco and the Government taking full advantage of the same in the case of power cuts and denial of supply of 100% power to Hindal  Lord Justice Goff proceeded with caution and observed as follows at pages 468 & 469 of the report: 'This group is virtually the same as a partnership in which all the three companies  The directors of DHN were the same as the directors of Bronze; the shareholders of Bronze were same as in DHN the parent company, and they had a common interest in maintaining on  Scottish Co- operative Wholesale Society Ltd. v. Meyer and Anr., [[1958] 3 All E.R.R., v. 66]. Viscount Sim  In partnership the position is clear. As stated in Lindley on Partnership (11th Edn.) p.401: "A partner cannot, without the consent of his co- partners  Renusagar was brought into existence by Hindalco in order to fulfil the condition of industrial licence . The model of the setting up of the power station through the agency of Renus  Hindalco made an application to the State Government under section 3(4) of the Act for exemption on 28th September, 1970 . In spite of repeated requests made by Hindal  The High Court in the instant case reiterated the necessity of cheap electricity and if cheap electricity was not made available, the cost of indigenous aluminium would go up . On the other hand, the  Price fixation, in our opinion, which is ultimately the basis of rise in cost because of the rise of the electricity duty is not a matter of investigation . Price fixation is more in the  Viscount Simon L.C. observed that the requirement to "have regard to" the provisions in question has no more definite or technical meaning than that of ordinary usage . The Judicial  Clause 7(2) of Sugar (Control) order had been set out at page 958 of the Sugar Enquiry Commission (October 1965), subject to the adjustment of such rise  It was submitted that the assumption that electricity duty was included in the prices of Hindalco fixed by the Central Government formed a basic and a very important consideration in the making of the imp  In Laxmi Khandsari etc. v. State of U.P. & Ors. etc. and others v. Jagmohan and others . Unreasonableness  The High Court should have allowed the claim of Hindalco for the reduced rate of bill on the basis that Renusagar Power Plant was its own source of generation under section 3( 