 The appellant has been the lessee of the respondent since about 1932 in respect of part of the original plot No. 4 (now plot 5B) The appellant objected to the offer made  The Bombay Port Trust was to offer/allot a final/reconsti-tuted plot for development to the existing occupants thereof as joint tenants . The eviction of the appellant was  The Bombay Port Trust, perhaps, was justified in coming to the conclusion that the only possible way to develop the properties of the Bombay Port trust in compli- ance with the Town  This is an appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated 19th November, 1986 of the learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court . The Board of Trustees of the Port  An associate firm of the appellant M/s. Natwar Parekh & Sons purchased plot No. 6 and became the owner thereof . The appellant objected to the offer made to D  The High Court accepted the finding of the appellate court that the notice of ejectment was valid notice and there was no waiver of notice . The appellant filed a writ petition No.710/  The Bombay Port Trust was given special privileges, powers and benefits by Section 4 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel & Lodging House Rates (Control) Act, 1947 . The Port Authorities  The Bombay Port Trust is statutorily exempted from the operation of Rent Act on the basis of its public/Government character . It was urged that the respondent did not enjoy any special privileges  Every action of the Bombay Port Trust which constituted "State" within Art. 12 of the Constitution in respect of any right conferred or privilege granted by any Statute is subject to Art.  Court heard that eviction for development with least dislocation was not necessary in public interest . Claimed eviction was only in pursuance of alleged policy on part of the Port Trust to let out  It is not within the purview of a court to substitute a decision taken by a . constituted authority simply because the decision sought to be substituted is a better one . Learned Addl.  The Port Trust continued them as monthly tenants for many years before formulating a policy to develop the plots by offering them to major holders . In pursuance to that Scheme, regulations have been  The learned Additional Solicitor General contested the above proposition on principle . He submitted that the decision of this Court in the Escorts case, [1985-3 Suppl. SCR 