 The respondents filed under s. 18A(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1922, estimates of their income for the assessment year 1948, 1948-49 and made advance payments  There is no warrant for the view that from the category of civil proceedings, it was intended to exclude proceedings relating to or which seek relief against enforcement of taxation laws of the State . The  The 1st Income-tax Officer, C-11 Ward, Bombay served a notice tinder s. 18-A(1) of the Indian Income-Tax Act, 1922 .  The High Court had no power under Art. 133 of the Constitution to certify a proposed appeal against an order in a proceeding commenced by a petition for the issue of a writ under . Art  An appeal lies against the adjudication of a High Court as a matter of right, whatever the nature of the proceeding . The expression "civil proceeding" is not defined in the Constitution,  Appeals from criminal proceedings lie as a matter of right in cases falling within cls. (a) and (b) of Art. 134, and in cases certified as fit for appeal  No provision has been made in the Constitution similar to S. 226 of the Government of India Act, and there is no reason to think that it was intended to deprive the High Court of  Section 18-A was added by the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act 11 of 1944 for imposing liability for advance payment of tax . It authorises collection of advance tax before  Amendment authorised the Income-tax Officer to reduce or waive the interest payable by the assessee in such cases and under such circumstances as may be prescribed . It was given retrospective operation from April  The Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act 25 of 1953 added a proviso to s. 18-A (5) that the assessee was entitled to interest not on the  The case was brought before the Commissioner of Income-tax and it is unfortunate that the Commissioner in considering the matter under s. 33-A assumed that the amending Act 25 of 1953  The respondents paid the tax in pursuance of the -provisional assessment made on July 22, 1950 under s. 23-B . All this was with respect to the assessment year  The High Court found that the Income-tax Officer had no jurisdiction to pass the order of rectification . By making the proviso in question retrospective as from April 1, 1952 the legislature  In the circumstances of the case, I hold that the Income-tax Officer was competent to rectify the mistake under s. 35 . I would, therefore, allow the appeals and qu 