 1) is or has been punishable by a sentence of imprisonment, or 2) is or has been punishable by a fine and constitutes a ground of refusal under subsection 1(1) of the Act; and that he is not a Convention refugee by virtue of his having been a resident of one of the countries listed in Schedule 3 of the Act.  The respondent Minister, pursuant to s. 46.01(1)(e)(ii), said that he would be of opinion that the applicant is not a Convention refugee on the ouser adjudicator had found him to be a person described in s. 27(2)(a) for 19(1)(f)(iii)(B) of the Act .  On March 22, 1994, the applicant submitted a statement of reasons for his non-representation. The statement of reasons was not particularly long, and did not cover the areas of factual and legal argument that the applicant wished to present.  The adjudicator noted that the applicant was given the opportunity to provide written representations to the Minister on March 9, 1 fully abstains from deciding an application for protection under the Act, unless in the public interest it is deemed necessary to do so ". The applicant has not contended that this information was not adequate for giving him an adequate opportunity to make a submission in relation to the question of the public interest.  In the circumstances, the applicant's right to a fair hearing under s. 7 has been breached. Under s. 7(1), the Minister, before making a decision, is required to give the applicant "an opportunity to be heard, and to make representations to the of D.L.R.) In the present case, the applicant has failed to demonstrate that the Minister's decision in effect denied him an oral hearing that he may have otherwise had. It is submitted that the Minister's failure to grant the applicant a personal interview for an oral hearing under the Act's provisions, as contemplated by the letter of May 26, 1994, was not reasonable.  The applicant has not been given an opportunity to be heard by the Minister in accordance with the standards of fundamental justice set out in the Canadian Bill of Rights and 