 This appeal is directed against the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur, dated 20.03.2002, in W.P.No.1065 of 2001 . The  Section 5 states that the jurisdiction of the University would extend to the whole of the State of Madhya Pradesh . Sub-section (1) of Section 9 recognizes the status of Mahars  The Madhya Pradesh High Court in its scholarly judgment has dealt with the intricacies of the wealth of knowledge contained in Vedas, running for several pages . The concept of Vedas deals  Division Bench states that the Atharvaveda does not perceive mans physiology, as delineated in terms of science, but visualizes in subtler elements, by making specific reference to  The Yogi is stated to have made an attempt for nearly four decades by knocking at the doors of the Legislators who came forward with the 1995 Act for establishing the institution with the laud  The 21st Century is termed as the century of knowledge. Education confers dignity to a man. Education should aim at promoting human rights by importing knowledge and skill among the people of the  In the case of [?CITATION?], this Court held that right to education is a fundamental right enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution . Education is a preparation for a  The 15th official census in India was calculated in the year 2011 . Literacy rate in India, during 2011 was found to be 74.04% compared to the adult literacy rate here  It is unfortunate that today education instead of reforming the human behaviour, in our humble opinion appear to have failed to achieve its objective . Education plays a cardinal role in transforming a society into a  The challenge was to the amendment, which was made to Section 4(1) of the 1995 Act . The University also opened up as many as 55 centers in which an average of 35  The expression dissemination of knowledge is, to put it precisely, the spreading of knowledge over wide frontiers . The State Legislature wanted to restrict the scope of study in the appellant University to Ved  Madhya Pradesh Vishwavidyalaya Adhiniyam, 1973 (Act 22 of 1973) v. ended that as far as the introduction of various courses, as well  The State of Madhya Pradesh v.  Act viz., Section 4(17), Section 6 (1) & (8), Sections 7, 12, 24, 25, 26 and  The University was not established under the 1995 Act, only for the purpose of imparting education in Vedas alone . It was intended for spreading the knowledge of Vedas and simultaneously to teach  An Act to establish and incorporate a University in the State of Madhya Pradcsh was to provide for education and prosecution of research in Vedic learnings and practices and to provide  The expression Gyan-Vigyan was specifically mentioned in Article From Newton to Nirvana: Science, Vigyan and Gyan . It will have to be understood to have been inserted  The amendment to Section 4(1) was clearly intended to purposely do away with its original intendment and thereby, restrict the scope of activities of the appellant University to the learning of Ved  The decision relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent State can be usefully applied to state that dissemination of knowledge in every respect would apply to any subject and cannot be restricted to any  Court in Osmania University case said dissemination of knowledge as originally incorporated in the un-amended Section 4(1) alone would serve the purpose of effective functioning of the appellant University in  The High Court overlooked the fact that the use of the negative language in each of the three clauses implied that the word and used at the end of clause (b) had to be read  The rule stated by Tindal, C.J. in Sussex Peerage case still holds the field. If the words of the statute are in themselves precise and unambiguous, then no  In AIR para 23, the Court held as under: (SCR pp. 137-38) Power of the State to legislate in respect of education including universities must to the extent  The Division Bench has held that once the University Grants Commission Act is in force, the running of the courses and determination thereof has to be controlled by the Commission . The decision should be taken  The running of centers by the appellant University would fall within the exclusive realm of Entry 66 of List I, which would in turn be governed by Section 12 of the University Grants Commission Act .  An attempt made from any quarters, which would disrupt the running of the appellant University, will only amount to interfering with its various Constitutional rights and fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution . The 