 A group of appeals has been filed by various appellant-Associations questioning the correctness of the common impugned judgment and order dated 21.03.2007 passed in Letters Patent Appeal  A large number of employees of Class III and IV posts were employed by the Corporation in the capacity of badlis, temporary and part-time workers . Their wage, conditions for the absorption  Only those workmen who had worked in the Corporation during the period January 1, 1982 to May 20, 1985, the date of the reference was to be considered as eligible for absorption .  Several writ petitions in this respect were filed before the High Court of Madras between 1989 to 1991 . The writ petition No. 10367 of 1989 filed between the Terminated Full Time Temporary  The Management of Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Their Workmen (SLP No 14906 of 1988) aggrieved by the Award passed by the CGIT filed Civil Writ Petition No  It was further held that the appellants had accepted the terms of appointment and therefore, they cannot raise a claim for their regularisation or automatic absorption in the permanent posts . The Division Bench  The CGIT has got ample power to adjudicate the existing industrial dispute between the parties on the basis of the points of dispute referred to it with respect to the claim raised by the concerned  The award of absorption of the concerned workmen passed by the CGIT has been rightly set aside by the learned single Judge . It is contended by him that in the SLP filed against  Industrial dispute raised by similarly placed workmen, who were appointed between the period 01.01.1982 till 20.05.1985 was adjudicated on the points of dispute by the N  Out of nine Unions eight Unions said to be representing about 99% of the workers have entered into a compromise with the Management . This Court passed the following order in SLP No  Industrial Tribunal cannot be said to perform a judicial or quasi-judicial function, since it is not required to be guided by any recognized substantive law in deciding disputes which come before it . In  All temporary employees who have worked for 85 days in any two consecutive calendar years with the Life Insurance Corporation between 20.5.1985 uptill date will be permitted to compete for the next  The award will continue to have its effect as a contract between the parties that has been made by industrial adjudication in place of the old contract . Breach of any of its terms will make  High Court was not justified in interfering with the Award passed by the CGIT . The High Court has erred in not noticing the important, relevant, factual and legal aspect of the case  Mr. Shekar Naphade, learned amicus curiae has rendered excellent assistance to this Court at our request to arrive at just conclusions in these cases . This Judgment and order shall 