 Allegations were made against Ravinderpal Singh Sidhu that he got a large number of persons appointed on extraneous consideration including monetary consideration . A large sum of money (about Rs.  The High Court acted on the basis of media reports alleging that wards of some sitting Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court have been favoured by the Chairman of the Public Service Commission  The High Court claimed privilege as regards the reports of the Committee . The State of Punjab also took a stand that the contents of the report of the Vigilance Bureau could not be disclosed .  The High Court in passing the impugned judgment considered the submissions of the parties . It opined that the rules of natural justice are not required to be followed in cases of cancellation of  The High Court in general opined that large scale corruption, irregularities, manipulation of marks and other illegalities are writ large in making selections by the Commission during the tenure of Shri Rav  The broad proposition, that all decisions taken during the period of Shri Sidhu were illegal, demonstrates arbitrary approach on the part of the State . The impugned orders also suffer from  The High Court failed to take into consideration that the interview committees were headed by sitting Judges of the High Court and thus it is preposterous to suggest that any illegality was committed in  In 95% cases the Chairman and Members allotted identical marks in the interview to the candidates which is next to impossible as the members and the Chairman were supposed to judge the capabilities of the candidates  Out of 18 nominated selectees who had filed writ petitions in the High Court, only 15 candidates have filed appeals before us and 12 have been named by the witnesses although First Information Reports were  A distinction exists between a proven case of mass cheating for a board examination and an unproven imputed charge of corruption where the appointment of a civil servant is involved . In [?C  The cardinal principle of governance in a civilized society based on rule of law has to base on transparency but must create an impression that decision-making is motivated on the probity of probity  The High Court cannot be said to be right in applying the principle of mass cheating cases in the instant case . A total number of 1680 selections involving 141 categories of employees were examined by  Screening Committee found the following two selections as vitiated: Selection to the post of sub-Divisional Engineer (Civil) in Panchayati Raj Department; Selections  The officers had passed other departmental examinations and so far as performance of their duties is concerned presumably there had been no complaint . The officers' services were terminated on the next day .  An action taken in undue haste may be held to be mala fide. We may now deal with the orders of termination of the services of the Judicial Officers.  No question paper or any other document as regards the candidates for the year 1998 examination, therefore, was handed over by the State to the High Court on that date . Report of the first  The High Court was considering a question as to whether a bias as regards a special matter would invalidate proceedings . It was not a case where the doctrine of necessity was required to be invoked  The House of Lords in the case of R. v. Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex p Pinochet Ugarte (No. 2)observed: "Public  The High Court was probably enthralled by the media reports that two of the wards of its sitting Judges obtained appointment wrongly . It is, however, stated at the Bar that they were  It is expected that the State having regard to the magnitude of the matter shall leave no stone unturned to bring the guilty to book . It is the duty of the State to unearth 