 The matter calls for an authoritative pronouncement as to whether the Board of Control for Cricket in India answers the description of "Other Authorities" within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of  Petitioners prayed for setting aside the said communication as also for issuance of a writ of or in the nature of mandamus commanding upon the Board to act in tems of the decision arrived  Union of India contends that the Board of Control of Cricket in India is a State . The Board had all along been acting as a recognized body and as regard international matches has always been seeking  ESS contends that although a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court would be maintainable but not one under Article 32 thereof as the Board is not a 'State  The International Cricket Council has recognized the Board not in its capacity as a cricket playing club but as a representative of India . By its disciplinary action, Mr. Salve would argue, the  In any view of the matter even if a provision was not unconstitutional on the day on which it was enacted or the Constitution came into force, by reason of facts emerging out thereafter, the  An organizer such as the BCCI or CAB in the present case which are indisputably devoted to the promotion of the game of cricket, cannot be placed in the same scale as  The expression "other authorities" in Article 12 of the Constitution of India is 'State' within the territory of India as contradistinguished from a State within the control of the Government of  The thrust now is not upon the composition of the body but the duties and functions performed by it . The primary question which is required to be posed is whether the body in question exercises public  The High Court issued a direction to Pepsi Company and Coca-Cola to disclose the composition and contents of the product including the presence of the pesticides and chemicals on the bottle, package or container  Each case must be determined on its own merits. Only its actions of promoting the sport making a law of cricket for the entire country, representing the country in international forum, appointing India's  In Poplar Housing and Regeneration Community Association Ltd. in Poplar, Poplar housing association Ltd. was subject to judicial review . Lord Woolf CJ said the fact that a body  English Courts have struck down rights of sports bodies such as Liverpool & London S.P. & I Association Ltd. (Supra) and Aga Khan (supra) earlier decisions  The Rugby Union is in relation to this decision in a position of major national importance, for the reasons already outlined . The decision affects the New Zealand community as a whole and so relations between  "134.134. "134: It may be that the statutory conferral of monopoly status on AWBI as a private corporation could impose obligations to observe the norms and values of public  New Zealand and other courts seeks to fill up the gap . Lord Woolf advocated a broader approach by extending review to cover all bodies which exercise authority over another person or body in such a  It is conceivable that there could be liability for employers in relation to the rules of professional sports. Any type of administrator could be liable for misrepresentations. And liability could potentially arise for failing  The Board authorized itself to make law regulating cricket in India which it did and which it was allowed to do by the States either overtly or covertly . The States left the decision making responsibility  A.J. Harding in his book 'Public Duties and Public Law' summarized the said definition in the following terms: "Certain bodies are regarded under that law as being amenable  The power of the High Court to issue a writ begins with a non- obstante clause . It has jurisdiction to issue such writs to any person or authority including in appropriate cases any  Even a hybrid body is bound to protect human rights as it cannot be violated even by such a body . The Board which has the pervasive control over the entire sport of cricket including the participants  An over emphasis of the absence of funding for the functioning of the body or the organization would not deny it from its status of a State . The organizers of competitive test cricket between one association  The Board is a society under the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act, 1975 . Its objects, inter alia, are to control the game of cricket in India and to resolve disputes .  The ICC is the governing body responsible for the administration, management and development of cricket in a Cricket Playing Country . The Board has the power to take disciplinary action against a player or a Member  Cricket is included in Annexure-I within the category [Others (C) ICC rules and Guidelines for classification of official cricket . The Union of India had issued guidelines which had been reviewed  The Board contends that it had never applied for recognition nor had it asked for financial aid or grant of any other benefit . The Union of India has not been able to controvert this position  The stand that the cricket team selected by the Board only represents it and not the country is incorrect . The Board is in a position to expend crores of rupees from its own earnings  The object of Part III of our Constitution is to curtail abuse of power and if by reason of the Board's activities, fairness in action is expected, it would answer the description of "  The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is an autonomous organization . The Board is a regulator of cricket played at the country level both off and on the fields including selection  It is not correct that the Board represents itself in international cricket . The Board has enormous power and controls the entire field of cricket . It is now recognized that cricket as an activity gives a  The Board's commands bind all who are connected with cricket. The rules and regulations framed by it for all intent and purport are "the code" which regulate an important aspect of national  The Board is to promote, control, regulate, make laws for the country and encourage the game of cricket . The Board, it appears, even nominates cricketers for the Ar  Cricket Association of Bengal (supra) was considered to be a pure private body where was the occasion for this Court to say that 'if it fails to explore the most profitable avenue of  Many duties in public law would not be public duties as, for example, duty to pay taxes . Kerala State Electricity Board Raghunath Gajanan Waingankar, [  Virendra Kumar Srivastava argued that if the Board is held to be a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, the doors of this Court and the High 