 Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board was established under Section 58 of the M.P. Reorganization Act, 2000 . A dispute arose between the appellant and respondent No.3  The parties may request for a copy of the order in PDF format through e-mail at registrar-aptel@nic.in or apply for a certified copy . It has been  The parties that the IA was disposed of on 17.5.2007 and they may request for a copy of the order in PDF format through e-mail or apply for a certified copy  The Electricity Act was enacted in the backdrop of dismal performance of various state electricity boards and alarming decline in the availability of power necessary for domestic, agricultural and industrial sectors .  Section 125 provides for an appeal to this Court against any order or decision of the Tribunal which can be filed within 60 days . The limitation placed on the jurisdiction of this Court is that the  The Electricity Act is a special legislation within the meaning of Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act . No court, except this Court, may entertain challenge to the decision or order  This is a significant departure from the [Arvigment of the . [Vigment] as also the . . scope of the [?Ceas] and the .  Section 5 of the Limitation Act cannot be invoked by this Court for entertaining an appeal filed against the decision or order of the Tribunal beyond the period of 120 days specified in Section 125 of  The word 'communication' has not been defined in the Act and the Rules . Rule 94(1) of the Rules lays down that the Bench of the Tribunal which hears an application or  The knowledge of the party affected by such a decision, either actual or constructive, is an essential element which must be satisfied before the decision can be brought into force . The Allahabad High  The period of limitation will start from the date of the order sought to be appealed against . Rajamannar, C.J., referred to earlier decisions in [?CITATION  A decision cannot be said to be passed until it is in some way pronounced or published under such circumstances the parties affected by it have a reasonable opportunity of knowing what it contains . High Court  The appellant had come to know about the impugned order in July 2007 from another source i.e., respondent No.5, which had sent communication for payment of FLEE 