 Appeal filed by All India Federation of Tax Practitioners against the Division Bench judgment of the Bombay High Court dated 22.2.2001 in Writ Petition No. 142/99 upholding the  Service Tax is a VAT which in turn is destination based consumption tax in the sense that it is on commercial activities and is not a charge on the business but on the consumer . Property based  The Finance Act of 1998 has increased the list of notified services so as to include advertising agencies, travel agencies, architects, caterers, clearing and forwarding agents, credit rating agencies,  Entry No. 92C of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution is as follows: Tax on professions, trades, callings and employments shall not exceed two thousand and five  Learned counsel urged that the words in respect of professions, trades, callings etc. in Article 276(1) indicate amplitude and the wide field open to the State Legislature to make laws  As an economic concept, there is no distinction between consumption of goods and consumption of services as both satisfy human needs . It is this economic concept based on the legal principle of equivalence which  Service tax is VAT which in turn is both a general tax as well as destination based consumption tax leviable on services provided within the country . No service tax is leviable for on-  There are two groups of entries in each of the three Lists in the Seventh Schedule . In List I, Entries 1 to 81 refer to several matters over which Parliament has authority to legisl  There is a difference between the word "on" and the expression "with respect to" When we refer to levy on excise duty under Entry 84 List I, we emphasize "on",  A public limited company was a lessee of two cinema Houses . A notice was issued to the appellant by the Cantonment Board under Section 60 of the [Cantonments Act,  It was held that the impugned tax on entertainment levied by the Cantonment Board was a tax on the act of entertainment resulting in a show . The tax on privilege to practice  A tax on profession is not a tax on employment . At the time, the tax is levied, the pensioner is not in employment, but he receives an amount of pension that constitutes  A tax on a thing or goods can only be with reference to a taxable event but there is a distinction between such a tax and a tax on the taxable event . As stated above,  The Court held that service tax is an indirect tax and is to be paid on all the services notified by the Government of India . It has been further held that the said tax is on  Civil Appeal No. 7128 of 2001 filed by All India Federation of Tax Practitioners and ors found no merit . Parliament has legislative competence to levy service tax by way of imp 