 Appeal is directed against the judgment and order of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court dated 10.2.2009 in Appeal No.133 of 2002 . Gokhale J.  The appeal raises the question as to whether the Division Bench correctly applied the law laid down by this Court in Steel Authority of India (Supra) to the facts of the present case .  An agreement was entered into between the trustees and the Central Government on 4.2.1957 . The government agreed to takeover control and management of the hospital and to manage it at its  The question for our consideration is whether the first respondent functions under the authority of the Central Government as its delegate as held by the Division Bench or is functioning as an independent entity . We have  In Heavy Engineering case, the State of Bihar had referred an industrial dispute between the Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd., a company wholly owned by the Central Government and its workmen for its adjudication  The court noted that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognizes it as a juristic person, separate and distinct from its members . Action taken against it does not directly affect  The last relevant judgment of the Constitution Bench in Steel Authority of India Ltd. (Supra), though with a slight divergence, is [?CITATION] In that matter a bench  The scheme of the CLRA Act 1970 came up for consideration before a bench of three Judges in [?CITATION?]. The court held that the Central Government was the appropriate government  The CLRA Act takes in its fold purely private undertakings which cannot be brought within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution, be it of the Central Government or the State Government .  At the end of this para the Constitution Bench concluded "we find no illegality either in the approach or in the conclusion arrived at by the court in these cases." (underlining supplied  The Industrial Court was assailed for laying emphasis on recital No. 6 of the agreement dated 6.1.1966 between the trustees of Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and Government of  Tests emerging for determining whether the industry is carried on under the authority of the Central Government or the State Government .  The fact that the members or directors of corporation and he is entitled to call for information, to give directions regarding functioning which are binding on the directors and to supervise over the conduct of  Under the agreement of 1957, the Dorabji Tata Trust handed over the property to the Central Government . The future acquisitions were to vest in the Governing Council of the Society . The  It is true that the property dedicated to the Tata Memorial Centre has not been transferred to the Society by the Central Government . Central Government has never claimed any title to the property adverse to the  The State Government is therefore the appropriate Government for the respondent No. 1 for the purposes of ID Act and MRTU and PULP Act . The Bombay High Court has clearly er 