 Challenge in this writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the 'Constitution') is to the order passed by Government of Andhra Pradesh, represented by  It is submitted that the petitioner has confused between pardon and remission of sentence . It is a case where materials existed which warranted the grant of remission and this Court should not interfere in the matter  The grounds and principles on which these powers should be exercised were neither discussed nor debated by the Constituent Assembly on 29th December 1948 and 17th September 1949 . The Code of Criminal  The philosophy underlying the pardon power is that "every civilized country recognizes, and has therefore provided for, the pardoning power to be exercised as an act of grace and humanity in proper cases  A reprieve, from the French word "reprendre," to take back, is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time . It is merely the postponement of the  The High Court has gone so far as to review a decision of the Home Secretary not to recommend a posthumous free pardon for a youth hanged for murder forty years ago .  In Kehar Singh's case (supra) it was held that the order of the President cannot be subjected to judicial review on its merits except within the strict limitations delineated in Mar  The Court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made . The duty of the Court is to confine itself to the question of legality  The position is undeniable that judicial review of the order of the President or the Governor under Article 72 or Article 161, as the case may be, is available and their orders can be imp  The burden would be on the Union Government to prove that there exists material which showed that the Government could not be carried on in accordance with the provision of the Constitution . The same approach was  The scope and ambit of Sections 14 and 21 of the General Clauses Act have been analysed by this Court in [?CITATION?] Section 432 (3) of Cr.  The CCSU case made it clear that the powers of the court cannot be ousted merely by invoking the word 'prerogative', The question is simply whether the nature and subject matter  Marshall's doctrine was put to a test that seems to have overtaxed it, perhaps fatally . Burdick refused to accept the pardon and persisted in his contumacy with the  The grand mother of convict Smt. Ratnamma is old, aged and there is no male person in the house to look after her . She desires that the convict should come and  The writ petitions are allowed to the extent indicated above . No costs are required . 