 In 1933 Dr. N. B. Parulekar and his wife Shanta, started a Newspaper called Sakal. In 1948, Dr. Paruleskar and Shanta promoted a  Appellants filed two suits being CS 225 and 226 of 1988 before the Court in Pune against the respondents seeking specific performance of the contracts of sale of 3417 and 93 shares to  Division Bench did not go into the issue having held in favour of the respondents on the merits .  The only prayers related to the cancellation of the impugned transfers and rectification of the Register of Members of the Company by removal of the names of the Respondent 5 and his group  The questions raised in the petition for rectification were determined on the basis of the material available both by the Single and the Division Bench . The preliminary objection raised by the respondents is accordingly rejected  The Articles give the hierarchy of the persons entitled to purchase shares upon transfer . The first right is given to the preemptors under Article 57-A . Next in the hierarchy is any member  The will of Dr. Parulekar empowered the Executors and Trustees to sell or postpone the sale from time to time of all the properties vested in them by the will .  A company by the name of M/s. Jain Plastic Pvt.Ltd. offered to purchase the 3417 and 93 shares at a price of Rs.2250 per  Shanta asked for an extension of time to submit information to the Auditors upto 20.2.1985 . Shanta was also called upon to submit any documents that she may desire  The High Court set aside the order of the District Court and remanded the matter to the Trial Court for re-deciding the appellant's application .  It is contended that the three trustees could not by themselves make any offer of sale of the 3417 shares to the Pawar group . The power of the Executor was not delegatable  Division Bench erred in holding that none of the other shareholders showed any interest in purchasing the shares . Division Bench held that the offers were valid notices under Articles 57-A and 58 to  A clause in the lease gave the lessees an option to purchase the reversion in fee simple at a price agreed by valuers . The lessors claimed that the option clauses were  If there is no stipulation as to time, it is not open to a party to unilaterally stipulate a time and then cancel the contract because of an alleged failure of the other party  Shanta had revoked consent she may have given qua Executor and Trustee to the sale of the 3417 shares to third parties . Shanta was not allowed to act as a  The Board of Directors never had the legal capacity to direct the registration of shares invalidly transferred . Neither of the appellants could have purchased the shares under Article 57A because Shanta was  Article 57-A does not envisage Shanta purchasing the shares through her nominee . Shanta could have purchased the shares herself, but she could also nominate any other person to purchase the  The decision to raise the issued capital of the company and to allot the shares at par was taken at an Annual General Meeting held on 16.11.1985 . It was resolved at that  Privy Council was of the opinion that to render the notice a compliance with the Act under which it was given it ought to have told the shareholders, including those who gave proxies, more  The Division Bench noted that this was provided in Section 81 of the Companies Act . Section 81(3) does not apply to a private limited company, but Article 15 says: Increase of  Shantha has died and the company has become a public limited company . The respondents have been at the helm of the company more than, two decades during the legal struggle . The outcome of 