 This appeal, by special leave, is directed against the judgment and order dated 23.6.2010 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Appeal  An application for recall was filed contending, inter alia, that the court was misguided . The appeal was assailed in appeal No. 779 of 2006 before the Division Bench .  The object behind Section 446 of the 1956 Act is to save the company which is being wound up from unnecessary litigation and to protect the assets for equitable distribution among its creditors and shareholders .  Division Bench held that on the basis of the grant of liberty the case could not have been reopened . Division Bench said respondent No. 3 would be entitled to make an application for grant of  Bench has rightly unsettled and dislodged the order passed by the learned Company Judge . No suit or other legal proceeding shall be commenced, or if pending at the date of the winding  A three-Judge Bench adverted to the principle of res judicata and its application as between two stages in the same litigation and opined that when a Court at an earlier stage  Arjun Singh (supra) had approached this Court as his application under Order IX Rule 13 of the Code to set aside an ex parte decree had been dismissed as barred by res  An ex-parte decree passed in a petition for eviction based on default in payment of rent was set aside on the finding that the landlord had agreed to withdraw the petition and accept rent  This Court that order passed by the appellate authority holding that the eviction petition was maintainable and Section 15 of the Act was not a bar, does not operate as res judicata .  Appeal was heard from time to time and the hearing was concluded but before the judgment could be pronounced, one of the Judges hearing the appeal was transferred . At that stage, respondents 7 to  The words liberty to mention have been as a matter of fact a phraseology which did not come through judicial process without any legal sanction for the purpose of clarification, if needed, but not  The High Court itself had granted liberty in the order which was the subject-matter of challenge and the matter was sub-judice . Had the learned Company Judge adjudicated the matter on 