 The marriage between the appellant and the respondent was solemnized on the 30th of April, 1979 . In the wedlock, two sons, namely, Vishal and Rahul, were born  At no point of time she showed any arrogance or any behaviour which could remotely suggest any kind of cruelty . She attended to her mother-in-law all the time with a sense of  The petition for divorce was dismissed by the High Court against the appellant-husband . The High Court said that the marriage had been irretrievably broken but matrimonial discord had  The High Court has expressed the view that the parties are at logger heads and have shown no inclination to patch the matrimonial rupture . The marriage is irretrievably broken and  An assertion on the part of the husband that the wife is unchaste are all factors which may undermine the health of a wife . The cruelty may be mental or physical, intentional or unintentional  Mental cruelty cannot be established by direct evidence and it is necessarily a matter of inference to be drawn from the facts and circumstances of the case . What is cruelty in one case may not amount  The wife had sent a notice to the husband through her advocate alleging that he had another wife in USA whose identity was concealed . The husband offered an explanation that it was merely a typographical  The veracity of the testimony is to be tested on objective parameters and not to be thrown overboard on the ground that the witnesses are related to either of the spouse . The wife in her  The wife, when studiedly scrutinized, would show that there was more of suspicion than any kind of truth in it . The husband, father-in-law and other relatives were  A. Jayachandra (supra) is of the considered opinion that the subsequent events can be taken into consideration . The wife had made a maladroit effort to take advantage of  The husband felt humiliated both in private and public life . Indubitably, it created a dent in his reputation which is not only the salt of life, but also the purest treasure 