 The appeal is directed against the judgment and order passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi (for short, `National Commission') in Original Petition No.116  Shri Sharma was admitted to Mool Chand Hospital in Jodhpur with pancreatic and feacal fistula . He was diagnosed with post- operative complications of Adrenoloct  The National Commission had decided the entire case of the appellants in the light of the law which has been crystallized by a number of cases decided by this Court . The allegations in the  The National Commission did not find any merit in this complaint of the appellants . Shri R.K. Sharma's death was attributable to the serious disease with which he was suffering from  Shri R.K. Sharma was diagnosed with a secreting adrenal tumour . The tail of the pancreas was traumatized during retraction as Shri.K  It is denied that the deceased was dissatisfied with the treatment . Dr. T.K. Bose and Dr. Kapil Kumar adopted the procedure, which in their opinion was in the  It is denied that pyrogenic Meningitis is swelling in the brain due to the spoiled surgery and the unhealed wounds inside caused by the repeated insertions of tubes introducing infections  Medical science has conferred great benefits on mankind but these benefits are attended by considerable risks . A man need not possess the highest expert skill at the risk of being found negligent .  The term 'negligence' is used for the purpose of fastening the defendant with liability under the Civil Law and, at times, under the Criminal Law . In Roe and Wool  A higher degree of negligence has always been demanded in order to establish a criminal offence than is sufficient to create civil liability . In civil proceedings, a mere preponderance of probability is sufficient  The Bolam test is the standard of the ordinary skilled man exercising and professing to have that special skill . The law does not require of a professional man that he be a paragon  The fact that the respondent charged with negligence acted in accordance with the general and approved practice is enough 38 to clear him of the charge . A mere deviation from normal professional practice is not necessarily  The most favourable view of the conduct of an accused medical man has to be taken, for it would be most fatal to the efficiency of the medical profession if no one could administer medicine without  Negligence becomes actionable on account of injury resulting from the act or omission amounting to negligence attributable to the person sued . In Jacob Mathew's case (supra) the  Negligence is an essential ingredient of the offence . The negligence to be established by the prosecution must be culpable or gross and 50 not the negligence merely based upon an error of judgment 