 Rai Sahib Kedar Nath started three schools in Kucha Ghasi Ram, Chandni Chowk, Bazar Sita Ram and Daryaganj, Delhi between 1912 and  Appellant No.1 also filed several cases in the Delhi High Court and this Court questioning the acquisition of its land and consequential actions taken by the respondents .  Appellant No.1 challenged the awards in CWP No.4343/1997 and prayed for quashing the action of the respondents to take possession of the 8 acquired land .  The entire land mass needs to be physically taken over, planned, roads and lanes straightened and widened to the extent feasible . The only possible way to achieve implementation of the redevelopment plan is  Shri Venkataramani produced a fresh compilation of the list of dates incorporating therein the developments which have taken place after filing of the special leave petition . This compilation shows that the  An order of the Land Acquisition Collector, Delhi dated February 23, 1968 was taken on record and marked as Annexure `X' It is clear that full opportunity of hearing through counsel was  A careful reading of the judgment in the Ramjas Foundation v. Union of India (supra) and the order passed in the special leave petitions clearly shows that the question whether the land  The principle that a person who does not come to the Court with clean hands is not entitled to be heard on the merits of his grievance is applicable to the petitions filed under Articles 32,  Divisional Court discharged the rule on the ground that the applicant had suppressed or misrepresented the facts material to her application . On appeal, Lord Cozens-Hardy M.R.  The institution of Wakf owes its origin to a rule laid down by the prophet of Islam . It means "the tying up of property in the ownership of God the Almighty and the devotion  The Indian Trust Act will not govern it, as section 1 of that Act lays down what Rai Kedar Nath created was a charitable trust as known to Hindu Law . The Division Bench agreed  Rai Sahib Kedar Nath intended to create a Wakf lacks merit and deserves to be rejected . No evidence was produced before the learned Single Judge to prove this . The hawan ceremony 