 Koramangala Residents Vigilance Group filed a Public Interest petition challenging the building licence issued for construction of multi-storeyed/ multi-apartments on Site Nos. 403 and  Petition was filed in the first week of November, 1991, as public interest litigation . It was held that building licence was issued in favour of appellant-builder on 19th August, 1987  The original files of Corporation were summoned by the Court, it was found that between 4th April, 1988 and 14th February, 1991 nothing transpired . However, the builder on 14th  M/s Batra Developments applied for and obtained licence from the Corporation of the City of Bangalore for construction of basement, ground and three upper floors on 3rd October, 1987 .  Pee Kay Constructions case is dismissed by Division Bench of Karnataka High Court . The appeal is disposed of accordingly. There will be no order as to costs .  The three appeals are before us for the final disposal of the appeals . The entire controversy centres around these Acts and the Rules .  Sub-rule (5) of Rule 17 says that the allottee must comply with the conditions on the agreement executed by him and the Buildings and other bye-laws of the Board  The Lessee/ Purchaser shall occupy the property as a tenant thereof for a period of ten years . The lessee /purchaser shall pay a sum of rupeesper year  The agreement is subject to the terms and conditions specified in the City of Bangalore Improvement (Allotment of Sites) Rules, 1964, and agreed to by the Lessee/ Purchaser  Condition No.4 of the lease cum sale agreement was only to survive so long as the lessee continued to be lessee as his rights of lessee are restricted i.e.  The final agreement only contains the condition that the lessee  purchaser should use the schedule property for human dwelling purpose and it will not be used in apartment of that building for purpose of shop  Public interest litigation was intended to means nothing more than what words themselves said . PIL initially was invoked mostly in cases connected with relief to the people and the weaker sections of the society .  In the case of [?CITATION?], even five months delay was considered to be fatal . Their Lordships dismissed the petition as there was no satisfactory explanation for the delay in  There is no doubt that delay is a very important factor while exercising extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution . The High Court cannot disturb the third party interest created on account of delay . 