 Vuyyur and Meduru estates were notified under the provisions of the Estates Abolition Act, 1948 . Compensation due for the estates was notified on 20.6.1961  High Court declared that Act 3/1971 extinguished the vested right of the estate holders to receive interim compensation till the date of commencement of the Act was ultra vires of Article 31(2  The respondents assailed the judgment of the learned Single Judge in writ appeal No. 511 of 1993 . The present appeal has been preferred by the State Government by grant of special leave .  The High Court was not justified in issuing a mandamus on the ground of finality to the earlier Judgment in favour of the respondents, as that would go against the provisions of Article 141  Article 141 of the Constitution unequivocally indicates that the law declared by the Supreme Court shall be binding on all Courts within the territory of India . The statements of the Court on matters other than law  Mr. Rao pressed into service in relation to the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Province of Bombay vs. Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay (73 Indian Appeals 271  Mr. Rao relied upon the judgment of this Court in [?CITATION?], which was an appeal against conviction under Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,  Mr. Rao's contention that a judgment of this Court in Civil Appeal No. 398 of 1972 is merely a judgment on concession and not a decision on merits. Consequently, this decision also  P.P. Rao argued with vehemence that the mandamus in favour of the respondents, could not have been ipso facto nullified on account of reversal of the decision of  The State of Karnataka had not filed any appeal against Shenoy . According to the aforesaid Judgment to ignore the binding nature of a Judgment of this Court under Article 141 of the Constitution  High Court issued writs for enforcement of fundamental rights as well as non-fundamental or ordinary legal rights, which may come within the expression 'for any other purpose' The powers of  A law of the land would govern everybody, and non-consideration of the principle of res judicata will not be a ground to reconsider the said judgment . The judgment of the 