 The appeal was filed under Section 116A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 (`the Act' for short), directed against judgment dated August 8, 2005, rendered by the  Thengana Kadanthod Thankchan, who is running "Mariya Store" on the Changanacherry-Karukachal road, had prized the lottery ticket  High Court 9 held that relevant contemporaneous newspaper publications like Ext. P-5 and P-6 corroborate the ocular version tendered by the witnesses examined by the respondent No.  An election trial where corrupt practice is alleged is to be conducted as a criminal trial . The standard of proof, spoken of by the 13 learned Judge, is contrary to settled principles of law  DW-10 deposed before the Court on March 6, 2002 that he had printed Ext. X4 from the press of PW-88 and that he himself had distributed the same in  According to this Court, the oral evidence has to be analyzed by applying common sense test . The reporters of Exts. P-5 and P-6 were examined in this case categor  The claim made by the learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 that PW-16, . PW-18 K. Anil Kumar would indicate that in . an answer to the question  The finding recorded by the learned Judge of the High Court that there is overwhelming and satisfactory oral evidence on the point that distribution of pamphlet Ext. X4 on May 8, 2001 and May  The High Court has placed reliance on unreliable and scanty evidence to find the appellant guilty of corrupt practice and, therefore, the finding that the appellant is disqualified under Section 99 of the Act  The theory that the benefit of distribution could have enured only to the appellant is misplaced in the light of principles laid down in Section 123 of the Act . The High Court in the imp  The High Court's understanding of law that the appellant would be liable for penalty under Section 99 of the Act for the acts of his agents without the conviction of such agents is completely erroneous in  The appellant is found guilty for republishing material from Crime magazine relating to misappropriation of funds from one Vivekananda College . The word "publication" occurring in Section 123  The High Court has held that the appellant believed the published material to be false at the time of its distribution . The reference to "Crime" magazine as a yellow journal is also not proper  Whether "Crime" magazine is a yellow journal is a matter of opinion and 56 not of fact . It is impossible to conclude that an opinion of this sort is a judicially noticeable 