 The Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999, has generated some controversy alleging its sweeping powers . Dr. Dr. MUKUNDAKAM SHARMA, J. J.  There is no vagueness as the definitions defined with clarity what it meant by continuing unlawful activity, organised crime and also organised crime syndicate . As the provisions treat all those covered by  ' is repugnant and has become void by enactment of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2004, amending the . [Unlawful activities (Pre  The Bombay High Court in the impugned judgment has held that MCOCA in pith and substance falls in Entry No. 1 of List III which refers to the criminal law .  The word 'insurgency' does not find mention in the UAPA even after the 2004 and 2008 amendments . The appellants would contend that the term refers to rising in active  The expression "in the interest of public order" as mentioned in the Constitution of India encompasses not only those acts which disturb the security of the State or acts within ordre publique as  The doctrine of 'pith and substance' is applied when the legislative competence of a legislature with regard to a particular enactment is challenged with reference to the entries in the various lists i.  The courts have evolved the doctrine of 'pith and substance' for the purpose of determining whether it is legislation with respect to matters in one list or the other . This doctrine came to  The Bombay High Court has held that though `promoting insurgency' is one of the facets of terrorism, the offence of terrorism as defined under the UAPA as amended by the 2004  Article 254 of the Constitution provides mechanism for resolution of conflict between the Central and the State legislations enacted with respect to any matter enumerated in List III of the Seventh Schedule reads as under  Court held that the two enactments contain inconsistent and irreconcilable provisions, so that they cannot stand together or operate in the same field . No question of repugnancy arises  The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the MCOCA states that organized crime has for quite some years now come up as a very serious threat to our society . There is reason to believe  The Preamble of the UAPA now reads as under: "An Act to provide for the more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities of individuals and associations and for dealing with terrorist  Sub-Clauses (l) and (m) of sub Section (1) of Section 2 of the UAPA define the term `terrorist gang' and `terrorist organisation'  No part of a statute and no word can be construed in isolation . Interpretation must depend on the text and the context of the text . The aim of the UAPA is to  The offence of terrorist act under Section 15 and the offence of Unlawful activity under Section 2 (1) (o) of the UAPA have some elements in commonality . 