 The case raises questions as to whether the dead persons property, in the form of his or her estate, can be taxed without the necessary machinery provisions in a tax statute . The High Court  The court heard learned counsel for the parties . He argued that registration of a person makes him a legal entity liable to be assessed as such . He also cited a number of decisions which will  The Bombay High Court had occasion to deal with a similar question in [?CITATION?]. A Division Bench went on to say that there appears to be nothing in the charging Section  Division Bench went on to say that there is no reference to the decease of a person on whom the tax has been originally charged, and it is very difficult to suppose the omission to  The individual assessee has ordinarily to be a living person and there can be no assessment on a dead person . The assessment is a charge in respect of the income of the previous year and  Bombay High Court held that Section 24B of the 1922 Act was not retrospective and stated that as Avabai N.Mehta died before the said Act came into force and before  Under Section 159(2), for the purpose of making any assessment, any proceeding taken against the deceased before his death is by deeming fiction deemed to have been taken against his legal representative  The East Punjab General Sales Tax Act is a simple one: A firm is a dealer; the said dealer is assessable to tax on its turnover, if its turnover exceeds the prescribed limit  Dissolution of a firm could therefore be viewed differently from the death of an individual . Dissolution is not a panacea for liability to pay sales-tax, the Court said .  A distinction was drawn between an individual who dies and a firm that is dissolved as a device to evade tax . The Court laid great stress on the provision contained in Section 15(1)  The Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 was used to bring into the tax net persons who wished to evade taxes by the expedient of dissolving a partnership firm . The fact situation in the  High Court went into morality and said that the moral principle of unlawful enrichment would also apply and since the law will not permit this, the law needs to be interpreted accordingly . We wholly disapprove 