 The writ petitions, under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, have been filed by the petitioners (management of various newspapers) praying for a declaration that the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper  The constitution of Wage Board was | |06.02.1976 | |challenged on 20.07.1981 on the ground . In December, the employers representatives . wrote to the  The composition of the two Wage Boards has been as under:- Wage Board for Working Journalists . Shri M.C. Narasimhan, as nominated by the same Federation, was  The Act infringes the guaranteed fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution . In the era of globalization and liberalization, to shackle one part of the industry with regulations is  Most of the decisions of the Wage Board have been quashed . The recommendations of the first Wage Board were set aside by this Court in [?CITATION] and the previous Man  The Constitution Bench of this Court in the case held that the impugned Act, judged by its provisions, was not such a law but was a beneficent legislation intended to regulate the  The classification made by the impugned Act is arbitrary and unreasonable, insofar as it removes newspaper employers vis-a-vis working journalists from the general operation of the Industrial Disputes Act  The only thing which is prohibited under Article 14 is that persons belonging to a particular group or class should not be treated differently as amongst themselves and no such charge could be levelled against this  The real difficulty, however, in the way of the petitioners is that whatever be the measures enacted for the benefit of the working journalists neither the intention nor the effect and operation of the  Challenge qua Amendment Act, 1974 stands disallowed . Petitioners had challenged the vires of the Amendment Act on the ground that extending the benefit of the Act to employees other than working  The petitioners relied on the Report of the Second National Commission of Labour to contend that the Act has become archaic . The Government has not accepted the Report insofar as the Statutory Wage Boards  The language of Section 9 does not contain any indication whatsoever that persons in the employment of the Government would be excluded from the category of independent persons . The committee or the advisory board can only  The contention of the petitioners alleging bias against independent members of the Wage Boards, being based merely on their past status, is entirely baseless in law and amounts to imputing motives . The  Union of India says Majithia Wage Board Report was prepared in a hasty manner and subsequently, the recommendations have been accepted by the Central Government without proper hearing or affording opportunity to  The time period for making representation in terms of Sections 10(1) and 13D of the Act was extended till 30.06.2008 . The last date for submission of completed questionnaire  Many of the petitioners have never bothered to attend the proceedings of the Wage Board and submitted financial data . The details of the meetings and oral hearings conducted by the Wage Boards are as follows  The petitioners main ground of challenge vis-a-vis the procedure adopted by the impugned Wage Boards is that they were not given reasonable time to reflect on the issues . The  If at all anybody is aggrieved by the recommendation of the Wage Board to adopt eight classifications, it is the employees and not the employers . No prejudice is caused to the employers and  The Union of India said it is judicially accepted methodology to determine capacity to pay of newspaper establishments . The classification of the newspaper establishments on all-India basis for the purpose of fixation  The Majithia Wage Board has followed well-settled norms while making recommendations about variable pay . The concept of variable pay is not newly introduced, though the terminology may have differed in  All the arrears up to March, 2014 shall be paid to all eligible persons in four equal instalments within a period of one year from today and continue to pay revised wages 