 The case before us is a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, and has been filed on behalf of the petitioner Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug by one Ms. Pink  The prayer of the petitioner is that the respondents be directed to stop feeding Aruna, and let her die peacefully . A team of doctors was appointed to examine Aruna Ramachandra Shan  Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug was admitted in the hospital after she was assaulted and strangulated by a sweeper of the hospital on November 27, 1973 . She never fully recovered  Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug was conscious with eyes open wakefulness but without any apparent awareness . She has evidence of intact auditory, visual, somatic and motor primary neural pathways  Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug has developed non-progressive but irreversible brain damage secondary to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury consistent with the known effects of strangulation .  The case has been adjourned to be listed on 2nd March, 2011 at the request of learned Attorney General of India, Mr. T.R. Andhyarujina .  The Central Government is directed to arrange for the air travel expenses of all the three doctors as well as their stay in a suitable accommodation at Delhi . An honorarium may also be given to  Aruna Shanbaug is clearly not in Coma . Patients appear awake, but have no awareness . They have normal heart beat and breathing, and do not require advanced life support .  By itself the term conscious does not convey any information about awareness of self and surroundings, or the ability to understand, communicate, have emotions, etc. CT Scan A specialized X-ray  Aruna Shanbaug has been abandoned by her family and is being looked after for the last 37 years by the staff of KEM Hospital . Dr Sanjay Oak, Dean KEM  Aruna Ramchandra Shanbaug has been admitted in a single room in Ward No.4 which is a ward of general internal medicine patients and she has been there for last 37  Aruna has probably crossed 60 years of life and would one day meet her natural end . The idea of withholding food or putting her to sleep by active medication (mercy killing) is  Aruna Shanbaug should be allowed to die . Shekhar Naphade relied on the decision of this Court in [?CITATION?](vide para 2)  Aruna Ramchandra Shanbaug has the right to live in her present state . The state that she is in does not justify terminating her life by withdrawing hydration/food/  The withdrawal of life support by the doctors is in law considered as an omission and not a positive step to terminate the life . The latter would be euthanasia, a criminal offence under the  Euthanasia is of two types : active and passive . Active euthanasia involves the use of lethal substances or forces to kill a person . Passive euthanasia entails withholding of medical treatment for  Some countries allow active euthanasia, but passive euthanasia is legal in some countries . In the Netherlands, euthanasia in the Netherlands is regulated by the "Termination of Life on Request  Switzerland is the only country in which the law limits the circumstances in which assisted suicide is a crime, thereby decriminalising it in other cases, without requiring the involvement of a physician . Belgium  Euthanasia is illegal in all states in U.S.A., but physician assisted dying is legal in the states of Oregon, Washington and Montana . The difference between euthanasia and  Living will (also known as advance directive or advance decision) is an instruction given by an individual while conscious specifying what action should be taken in the event he/she is unable to make  Anthony Bland suffered catastrophic and irreversible damage to the higher centres of the brain . His consciousness, which is an essential feature of an individual personality, had departed forever . But his brain-stem  The House of Lords ruled that doctors could not withdraw medical treatment or feeding Anthony Bland thus allowing him to die . The Court of Appeal, like the President, answered this question generally in the  Anthony's brain stem is still alive and functioning and it follows that, in the present state of medical science, he should be so regarded as a matter of law . There has been no  The law draws a crucial distinction between cases in which a doctor decides not to provide, or to continue, for his patient treatment or care which could or might prolong his life, and those  The law considers that discontinuance of life support may be consistent with the doctor's duty to care for his patient . But it does not, for reasons of policy, consider that it  The question is whether doctors responsible for the treatment and care of Anthony Bland can justifiably discontinue the process of artificial feeding upon which the prolongation of his life depends . The question  The law is now fairly well settled that in the case of incompetent patients, if the doctors act on the basis of informed medical opinion, the said act cannot be regarded as a crime .  In Vacco's case (supra) the U.S. Supreme Court again recognized the distinction between refusing life saving medical treatment and giving lethal medication . The Court held that the State  The notion of bodily integrity has been embodied in the requirement that informed consent is generally required for medical treatment . The patient generally possesses the right not to consent, that is to refuse treatment .  In India abetment of suicide (Section 306 Indian Penal Code) and attempt to suicide are both criminal 85 offences . This is in contrast to many countries such as USA where attempt to  A person's most important organ is his/her brain . This organ cannot be replaced . Other body parts can be replaced e.g. if a person's hand or leg is am  A present-day understanding of death as the irreversible end of life must imply total brain failure, such that neither breathing, nor circulation is possible any more . The question of the length of  An individual who "sustains irreversible cessation of all functions of the entire brain, including the brain stem, is dead" Aruna Shanbaug is in a persistent vegetative state  Aruna Shanbaug meets most of the criteria for being in a permanent vegetative state which has resulted for 37 years . Her dementia has not progressed and has remained stable for many years  The doctrine of Parens Patriae (father of the country) originated in British law as early as the 13th century . It implies that the King is the 103 father of the  The High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution can grant approval for withdrawal of life support to an incompetent person . Article 226 states that the High Court is not only entitled to issue writs  The panel of doctors in every city should be prepared by the High Court in consultation with the State Government/Union Territory and their fees for this purpose may be fixed . The above procedure should  Every Indian is proud of them.  for so many long years. For so many years. for so long years . For so long they were there. Every Indian.   for 