 These appeals are directed against the common judgment of the Division Bench of the High of Allahabad dated 23.04.2012 in Writ Application No.34198 of 2008 etc. batch .  The Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission (Procedure for Selection of Teachers) Regulations 1983 (hereinafter called the 1983 Regulations) was framed and was notified on 20.08.  The Allahabad High Court challenged the appointment of Members of U.P. Higher Education Service Commission respondents No. 4 to 13 in writ petition No. 34198 of 2008 of 2008 .  The State Government was aggrieved in as much as the State Government had earlier directed for holding an enquiry into the misfeasance in the matter of selection made by the Commission .  Shri Amarendra Saran sought to contend that the High Court factually erred in holding that those appellants did not satisfy the prescribed qualifications such as experience, possession of necessary  The learned senior counsel submitted that the 1983 guidelines were also accepted by this Court in the judgment reported in Dr. Keshav Ram Pal (supra) Mr. C. U.  The selection made by the commission was in accordance with Regulation 6 of the 1983 Regulations, that there were guidelines both for initial screening as well as for evaluating the merits at the time of interview  The High Court found no impediment in the case of the writ petitioner in W.P.No.34198 of 2008 to voice his grievance along with other writ petitioners . The  The de facto doctrine is intended to prevent invalidation of Acts, such as appointments, on the sole ground that they were performed without de jure authority . Even while applying the de facto  Division Bench found very many illegalities in making the selection . The ratio laid down in the said judgment in the background of facts, i.e., the Committee was headed by a Sitting  The question for consideration is whether the Commission could have resorted to variation of such index norms and ultimately allow all the candidates to participate in the selection . The Commission is expected to display its honest  Public Service Commission Chairperson should be beyond reproach and his appointment should inspire confidence among the people in the institution . We find full justification in the approach made by the Division Bench in the  The Division Bench has extracted the guidelines dated 06.10.1983 which is to the following effect: Each of the Members of an Interview Board irrespective of whether he is a Member of the  The Court ultimately held that there was no illegality in the procedure of overall evaluating of the candidates fixing marks for each of the items noted above . Members of the Commission who interviewed the candidates  The Division Bench was able to find out that the relevant regulation viz., regulation 6 was seriously breached, in as much as there were serious flaws in the preliminary screening as well as in permitting  The Railway Board's decision to cancel the selection cannot be faulted with . The appeal therefore deserve to be allowed. The decision in the case of Krishna Yadav (supra) applies  An interim order came to be passed on 20.11.2008, by which, the selected candidates were directed to be appointed, subject to filing of an undertaking into this Court within one 