 Appeals directed against a common judgment and order passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi in R.F.A. No. 85 and 86 of 1987 under Section 54 of  The Union of India and the Delhi Development Authority are before us . The High Court failed to take into consideration the fact that the Respondents themselves purchased the land at the rate of Rs.  The High Court in fact entertained the appeals preferred by the Appellants as regard : (a) ownership of China Clay, (b) value of the land and (c) application  The principal dispute between the parties is as to whether Gulab Sundari had had any right, title or interest as Bhumidhar or otherwise in the said land . The High Court  The Calcutta High Court found that the amount of compensation was fixed on the basis of some judgments passed by the High Courts in matters which were said to be involving similar lands . The  It is absolutely clear that a person can be either a bhumidhar or an asami of the type which is enumerated in Section 8 of the Delhi Land Reforms Act .  In [?CITATION?], referring to the statutory presumption as between zamindar and jagirdar, it was held that the former must be regarded as the owner  Punjab Minor Minerals Rules, 1934, Rules 3, 5 and 7 read: "No person shall quarry any minerals belonging to Government from land, whether privately owned or otherwise included within any  The High Court and the Reference Court was not drawn to the statutes and the statutory rules . Section 15 of the said Act empowers the respective State Governments to make rules in respect of minor  The brick-earth concerned in the suits out of which the present appeals have arisen was in lands which formed the estates of the private owners and as such the same belonged to such landowners .  The expression 'mine' having regard to its definition contained in Section 2(j) of the [Mines Act, 1952] is of wide import . In the village in question there  The Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 was enacted to amend and declare the law in force in the State of Punjab with respect to "making and maintenance of record-of-rights in  The Delhi Land Reforms Act was enacted to create an uniform body of peasant proprietors without intermediaries for the unification of the Punjab and Agra systems of tenancy laws in force in the  The Act maintains a silence about the right of the land owners in respect of mines and minerals . It is possible to hold that as by reason of the said provision only limited rights were conferred  The amount of compensation in view of the statutory provisions will depend upon several factors . Compensation for such minerals may not be computed on the basis of profits earned by a mining lessee having a  Comparable sales method of valuation is preferred than other methods of valuation of land such as capitalisation of net income method or expert opinion method . However, comparable sales method is not always conclusive  The Court noticed a large number of decisions wherein deductions had been made at different rates varying from 20% to 53% . The purpose for which acquisition is made is also a relevant factor for  DDA was entitled to recover a portion of unearned increase in value i.e. difference between premium paid and market value of plot at the time of sale . Government of India extended  There is no evidence adduced by the Respondents to show that the pits caused by such mining activities have already been filled up . As per the evidence on record the minerals can be  Grant of interest in terms of Section 28 of the Land Acquisition Act is discretionary . Only rate of interest specified therein is mandatory .  The Constitution Bench held that the respondents waived service of a notice within two years of the expiry of the return period by reason of the order of injunction obtained by them . It is not  A party who himself represents before the court of law that he would not claim interest with a view to obtain an order of stay which would be for his own benefit, in our opinion,  The Delhi High Court held that if the petitioner has taken part in a proceedings although the claimant has not been served with any notice, he cannot raise any grievance in this behalf . The Delhi  The High Court in its judgment has proceeded computing the amount of compensation on the basis of the circle rates without considering this aspect of the matter . Nothing has been shown before the High Court that  The Division Bench of this Court did not have any occasion to [?CITATION?] and B.V. Reddy (supra), which, it will bear repetition to state  The rights of the parties, it is well- settled, must be determined on the basis of the case pleaded and proved by leading proper evidence . We are not, in these appeals,  Shri L.R. Gupta had already withdrawn a sum of money as awarded by the Reference Court, the details whereof are as under "rewardable" Name Compensation Amount Interest  An award was made @ Rs.1.74 per sq. yard, although the claim of Rs.30/sq. yard was made and the High Court blindly followed its decision in  Appeals are disposed of accordingly.  on the same lines. No costs . 