 A procrastinated legal tussle spanning over three decades has spiralled up the judicial tiers to this Court seeking a quietus to the issue of adequate reparation of the appellants  In several cases of land acquisition, though award had been passed, the compensation had not been paid to the land owners . It was decided that, in cases where compensation amount awarded had not  The appellants were entitled to be allotted 15% developed land in Vidyadhar Nagar Scheme, as plots were available thereat . The land of the appellants situated in Village  The decision impugned in the present batch of appeals arises from the said verdict . The JDA emphatically countered the said claim pleading that not only land at Vidyadhar Nagar  The decision contained in the circular dated 13.12.2001 was bereft of any reference to the JDA Act, and thus the decision contained therein could not be construed to be one  The affidavit was filed on 22.01.2013 on behalf of the Urban Development Department of Rajasthan Government . Precise answers to the queries No.1, 2 and 7 have  The State admitted that the land referred to in letter dated 16.10.2007 issued by the JDA, and located at Vidyadhar Nagar was still vacant . The J  The JDA in its additional affidavit dated 16.07.27\. offered land(s) in the following schemes for allotment, as substantial investments had been made to carry out development  The appellants also furnished in their counter- affidavit particulars of the land referred by this Court in its order dated 17.05.2015, plots offered by the JDA in its additional  The State followed up the chain of pleadings by its additional affidavit dated 28.09.2015 to state that in addition to the Lalchandpura, land at Boytaw  Dr. Dhawan argued that, on the one hand, the State did not deposit the amount of compensation at the enhanced rate as granted by the Court, and on the other, denied  The appellants have been wrongly non-suited by the Division Bench of the High Court on the ground of non-compliance of Article 166 (1) & (2) of the  The contentious pleadings and the accompanying documents along with the competing arguments have received our in-depth consideration . The fulcrum of the debate is the circular dated 13.12.2001  In terms of Section 54 of the JDA Act, notwithstanding anything contained in the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956, the land as defined in Section 103 thereof, excluding land referred  The parties are not so much in issue, herein over the status and bearing of the enjoinment of Article 166(1) & (2) of the Constitution of India as qu  Jaipur Development Authority had decided to offer 15% developed land to the khatedars/land owners in lieu of compensation for the land acquired . This is amply testified, amongst  Rule 31(1) of the Rules of Business and final disposal of matters relating to the matters mentioned in II | |Schedule under Rule 8 of the rules, the subject matter of  Rule 11 enjoins that all orders or instruments made or executed by or on behalf of the Government of Rajasthan shall be made in the name of the Governor . Rule 12 requires  This circular was issued with the approval of Minister In- charge of the Department . The State did, however, in unqualified terms aver that in terms of the Standing Orders under Rule 21  A letter issued by the Under Secretary to the Government of Mysore, Education Department conveying the decision of the Government to award 25% marks in the interview for admission to Engineering Colleges  The vires and constitutional validity of the Goa (Prohibition of Further Payment and Recovery of Rebate Benefits) Act, 2002 was impeached in G[?CITATION?  The State Government in its counter-affidavit in the appeals in support of the judgment impugned, pleaded that the notifications did not embody the Government decision inasmuch as the  It must be decided from the wording of the relevant enactment whether the requirement is intended to be mandatory or merely directory . The court will be more willing to hold that a statutory requirement is merely  The Land Acquisition Officer, Jaipur by his award dated 9.1.1964, determined the amount of compensation payable to the land owners and the beneficiaries of transfers which were illegal being  A circular representing to be a policy decision, was issued in 1978 to that effect . The draw of lots was held thereafter for allotment of plots to the awardees and the beneficiaries of  The High Court had impermissibly sought to legitimise the illegal transactions in violation of the dictum of this Court in Radhey Shyam (supra) and Daulat Mal  High Court enjoined peremptory compliance of the requirements for fructification of the minutes of the meeting to be a general or special order in writing by the Central Government .  The decision of this Court in Hari Ram (supra) pertains to the grievance of discrimination in the matter of release of acquired lands . The direction of the High Court to allot  All executive action of the Government of a State is enjoined to be expressed to be taken in the name of Governor, as predicated by clause (2), orders and other instruments made  It has been the practice to hold such provisions to be directory only, neglect of those, though punishable, would not however affect the validity of the acts done . It has not been argued  The State Government was fully aware of the amendment to the Rules on 5.3.1999. It was only with the Order dated 8.7.2004, that as per Rule 31  The process was initiated at the level of the Director of Land Records on the basis of the circular/policy dated 13.12.2001 and was routed through the Chief Minister . The matter  The plea of the respondents, at this belated stage, to take refuge of unenforceability of the circular dated 13.12.2001 in isolation, as not being a binding  The land of the appellants, as acquired, was situated at Boytawala which, thus has not yet been fully developed as on date . The market value of the land at  Human rights have already been considered in the realm of individual rights but now human rights are gaining a multifaceted dimension . Right to property is also considered very much a part of the new  The doctrine of promissory estoppels may be applied against the Government where the interest of justice, morality and common fairness dictate such a course . The doctrine is applicable against the State  The sites at Boytawala, Lalchandpura, Anantpura and Mansarampura are located within a range of 14.70 K.M. to  The rule of law prohibits arbitrary action and commands the authority concerned to act in accordance with law . Every action of the State or its instrumentalities should neither be suggestive of discrimination, nor even  A writ of mandamus is an extraordinary remedy intended to supply deficiencies in law and is discretionary in nature . Its purpose is to remedy defects of justice; accordingly it will issue, to the  The Supreme Court has been conferred very wide powers for proper and effective administration of justice . The Court has inherent power and jurisdiction for dealing with any exceptional situation in larger public interest which builds confidence  No costs.  any further cause of action necessitating the intervention of this Court with stringent initiatives. No costs . 