 Appeal prayer has been made for setting aside the order of the Bombay High Court whereby the applications filed by the appellants for condonation of delay in filing appeals under Section 35 of the  Kartik Parekh averred that no case is made out against the applicant as Section 3 (d) of the Act is only attracted in case of a transaction in a foreign currency  The applicant submits that no case is made out against the applicant as Section 3 (d) of the Act is only attracted in case of a transaction in a foreign currency/foreign security  Petition Nos. 8231 and 8232 of 2007 on 5.11.2007 prayed for quashing the order of the Appellate Tribunal . The Bombay High Court dismissed the applications for  A. K. Panda, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents supported the impugned order . He argued that the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court did not commit any error by  The time during which the applicant has been prosecuting with due diligence another civil proceeding, whether in a court of first instance or of appeal or revision, against the same party for the same relief  Section 34(1) provides that recourse to a court against an arbitral award may be made only by an application for setting aside such award `in accordance with' sub-section (  Section 34(3) of the [Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996]. J.M. Panchal, J., speaking for himself and Balakrishnan,  Section 5 of the Limitation Act cannot be invoked by this Court for entertaining an appeal filed against the decision or order of the Tribunal beyond the period of 120 days specified in Section 125 of  The policy of the section is to afford protection to a litigant against the bar of limitation when he institutes a proceeding which by reason of some technical defect cannot be decided on merits  Section 34 of the Act can be exercised by the court only if the aggrieved party makes an application . Section 14 of the Limitation Act does not provide for a fresh period of limitation  The Appellant declares that there is delay of 1056 days in filing the appeal as prescribed in the [Limitation Act, 1963]. The delay occurred as the Writ Petition was filed  The Bombay High Court had the exclusive jurisdiction to entertain an appeal under Section 35 of the Limitation Act . The appellants were sure that keeping in view their past conduct, the Bombay High  Appellate Tribunal did not commit any error by refusing to entertain their prayer for total exemption . The appeals are dismissed . 