 The BCCI was amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India as it was discharging important public functions . The Board of Control for Cricket in  By a separate report dated 18th December, 2015, the Committee has recommended several steps and measures that would streamline the working of the BCCI and possibly prevent any aberrations or  The Committee recorded a specific finding that the problems faced by the BCCI have been compounded by the involvement/association of many high functionaries in the Central and State Governments . The Committee  The Committee dealt with the Structure and Constitution of BCCI, identified the problems that arise from their current status and the need for reform in the same . Not all States are represented on the  The Committee proposes the policy of One State  One Member  One Vote . The Committee is of the view that it is not proper for only one or two States to have multiple members .  The categories of Affiliate and Future Members are to be removed, and only Full Members and Associate Members will remain . The 4 associations from the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat which would be relegated  The Committee has recorded a finding that with an individual-centric constitution the reins of crickets richest and arguably most powerful national body remains mired in controversy and seems to have strayed from  The governance of the BCCI must be decentralised and decentralised . The Apex Council should have a fair mix of elected representatives and independent members . The public are the primary stakeholders in the  The Committee has examined BCCIs need for reform in its cricketing and non cricketing management with the help of full-time professionals . Non-cricketing management ought to be handled  The Committee has taken cognizance of complaints of many stakeholders that very little of the functioning of the BCCI is done in a fair and transparent manner . The commercial angle has overtaken  The Committee has opined that people of the country have a right to know the details about the functions of the BCCI and its activities . It recommends to the legislature to bring BCCI  The conflicts that arise by holding office both at the BCCI and in the State Associations ought to be brought to an end by automatic vacation of post at the local level when elected to  The reforms have been summed up under the heading End of the Innings in the following words:END OF THE INNINGS . The Committee learns that some members are merely collecting the grants  A Cricket Players Association affording membership to all international and most first class men and women retired cricketers . An independent Electoral Officer to oversee the entire electoral process is also mandated . An  Rules on Conflict of Interest provide that every complaint shall be decided within a period of 30 (Thirty) days from the receipt of the complaint and the decision of the Ombudsman shall be final  The affidavit traces the history of the growth of the activities of the BCCI and corresponding growth in its finances . BCCI has also faulted the proposed reduction in advertisement as the same will  The BCCI has welcomed the suggestion of formation of a Players Association but opposed any funding by the BCCI as recommended by the Committee . It has also not favored players representation in the Board  Any grievance based on alleged violation of the principles of natural justice did not, in our opinion, constitute any substantive or procedural infirmity that could vitiate the report or the recommendations  Venugopal placed heavy reliance upon the judgment of this Court in Zee Telefilms case (supra) He argued that the proposed change in the composition of the BCCI would  It has chosen to leave the activities of cricket to be controlled by private bodies out of such bodies' own volition (self- arrogated) In the absence of any authorisation,  The recommendations do not, in our opinion, affect the composition of the State Cricket Associations in any manner . Citizens who have come together to form the State Associations continue to associate as  Petitioners say that their fundamental rights are infringed by shareholders under Article 32 . But the Court does not see how we can legitimately entertain the petitioners plea in the present petitions . If  The respective rights guaranteed by Article 19(1) cannot be combined as suggested by Mr Palkhivala, but must be asserted each in its own way and within its own limits  It was argued that the right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(c) is only to form an association . The right will be rendered ineffective until it is held to include the right to  A right to form associations guaranteed under Article 19 (1)(c) does not imply the fulfillment of every object of an association as it would be contradictory to the scheme underlying the text and  The Committee has recommended that these clubs and associations need not be continued as full members as they do not represent any geographical territory . Two of the clubs namely Cricket Club of India and National Cricket  The Lodha Committee is justified in contending that the process of recognizing one out of three associations representing three different regions in those two states is fraught with several difficulties and would result in long  The Lodha Committee recommended that the upper age limit for office bearers be lowered to 70 years . It was contended that the restrictions sought to be placed on the Ministers and Government Servants  Several public servants hold lead positions in State Associations which take a toll on both sets of obligations to the public . The lack of any qualifications or disqualifications also ensures that those with full  The Committee has noticed that the state of affairs prevailing in BCCI and the expenses incurred by it call for better financial management and financial prudence . The Committee proposes that clear principles of transparency  The Committee has rejected the criticism leveled against the recommendations of the Committee regarding the formation of a Players Association . The criticism is unfounded and accordingly rejected, the Committee said .  The public at large has a right to know and demand information as to the activities and functions of the BCCI especially when it deals with funds collected in relation to those activities as a trustee  The BCCI has objected to the recommendation in so far as same pertains to induction of two nominees of the IPL franchisees . There is prima facie a possibility of conflict  A three year term recommended by the Committee is, in our opinion, reasonable . The prescription of cooling off period between two terms cannot be faulted . An optimum period of 9 years as 