 The question arises for consideration in these appeals is whether priority given to the dues payable by an employer under Section 11 of the [Employees' Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act,  Section-529(A) has been introduced in the year 1985 . It clearly provides that "notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of the Act or any other law for the time  Shri Agrawal relied upon the judgment of this Court in [?CITATION?] The EPF Act was last amended in 1976 . The Act was amended by Act Nos.  An analysis of Section 11 of the EPF Act shows that it gives statutory priority to the amount payable to the employees over other debts . Section 11(1) relates to an employer who  Section 529 deals with application of insolvency rules in winding up of insolvent companies . Section 530 gave priority to revenue of the State and local authorities and various amounts payable to employees including  The object of this amendment is to place the legitimate dues of workers at par with those of secured creditors . This is also a legislative recognition of the fact that the workmen contribute to the  The expression "workmen's dues" has been defined in Section 529(3)(b) to mean all wages or salary including wages payable for time or piece work and salary earned wholly  Section 11(2) of the EPF Act was interpreted by the Kerala High Court in [?CITATION?]. Speaking for the Bench, B.N. Srikrish  The ratio of the judgment in Builders Supply Corporation v. Union of India (supra) was applied to the cases in which statutory first charge was created in favour of the State in  Sub-section (7) of Section 13 which envisages application of the money received by the secured creditor merely regulates distribution of money . It does not create first charge in favour of the  The two legislations are intended to create a new dispensation for expeditious recovery of dues of banks, financial institutions and secured creditors, but the provisions contained therein cannot be read as creating  Sub-section (2) was designedly inserted in the Act for ensuring that the provident fund dues of the workers are not defeated by prior claims of secured or unsecured creditors  The workmen contribute to the growth of the capital and must get their legitimate share in the assets of the company when the situation arises for its closure and distribution of its assets first among the  Secured creditors in certain circumstances can claim priority over all other creditors for release of amounts out of the other monies lying in the Company Court . This limited priority is declared in Section 529  The Court rejected the argument that the proceedings initiated by the Financial Corporation under Section 29 of the [State Financial Corporations Act, 1951] will not be affected by the non obstante clause  Every part of the statute must be interpreted keeping in view the context in which it appears and the purpose of legislation . In [?CITATION?], Chinnappa Reddy,  The words "all other debts" used in Section 11(2) would necessarily include the terms "workmen's dues" and to the extent such debts rank under clause (c) 