 Alagiriswami was elected to the Assam Legislative Assembly from a constituency which is a tribal area of Assam with a heterogeneous composition of tribesmen vaguely Hindu by persuasion,  The High Court had been far too easily persuaded by unsatisfactory oral evidence each of which is of an ad hoc character, uncorroborated by any testimony of compelling value . The  Appeal relates to the election to the Assam Legislative Assembly from Dhing constituency . The appellant was declared elected by a majority of 1185 votes . The respondent filed an election petition making three  The High Court's holdings on those charges may, at the outset, be set out, to get a hang of the controversy in this appeal . "In view of the above discussion of  The High Court heard that there was an endemic sensitivity to election propaganda and method in certain regions . It all depends on the socio- political pathology or sensibility of each province or constituency .  To judge is in part an esoteric art, not a rule of thumb and this case is a challenge to our ability to feel our way to veracity through university . The founding faith of  A fanatic may seek votes castigating his co-religionist with reforming zeal as a de faco apostate . But to delve meticulously into these dark mines of divergent opinions and  It is not out of place to point out that if we stretch semantics out of context the appellant may, by calling his rival a revolutionary 116 communist (which he claims to be), commit  The Supreme Court has to have an appraisal of the witnesses' truthfulness and accuracy, the Judge's experience of men and matters and careful reflection being the lie- detector .  P.W. 53 testifies to the appellant's visit to a village library and asking for votes pleading that he may be taken as a Hindu 'because his mother is a Kach  The High Court is constrained to reverse the finding of the High Court in the present case . It is a matter for profound regret that political communalism far from being rooted out is foliating  P. Ws. 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 14, 56 and 58 have been relied on by the petitioner to press home the charge of threat of  The election petition has been blissfully vague in regard to the particulars in support of the averment of undue influence . The rules of the game, in this decisive democratic game where power corrupt  The last surviving corrupt practice of bribery may now be examined from the legal and factual angle . The charge is that the appellant offered to a mulla or mosque functionary with religious influence over  All elections involve expenses and that is why s. 77 sets a ceiling on such expenses . The object must be directly or indirectly to induce an elector to vote or not to vote at an  The allegations are that the appellant and . RW 33 called the Mulla to the house of RW 33 at Dhing Bazar on February 18, 1972 and offered to pay Rs. 2  The appeal is allowed and the election petition dismissed with costs throughout . The judges said that by human insight and judicialised procedures, the truth is what our lights tell us it is . 