 The appellant manufactures steel tubes in the outskirts of Ahmedabad city . It started its business in 1960, went into production since 1964 and waggled from infancy to adulthood with smiling profits and  The award equates an illegal and unjustified strike with brozen misconduct by every workman without so much as identification of the charge against each, after adverting to the gravamen of  The law cannot be stultified by verbal haberdashery because the Court will lift the mask and discover the true face . Masters and servants cannot be permitted to play hide and  The wide words of Article 226 are designed for service of the lowly numbers in their grievances if the subject belongs to the Court's province and the remedy is appropriate to the judicial process . The  The orders of discharge could not be regarded as orders of their dismissal and were on the other hand, properly passed under Model Standing order 23 . Arbitrator under section 10A will have to  M.S.O. 23 would be render otiose if termination of service thereunder for misconduct could be regarded as a dismissal . Such a result strikes at the very root of  The High Court exceeded the limits of its jurisdiction in interfering with the said punishment, in the instant case, purporting to act in the exercise of its powers under Article 227 of the Constitution  An affluent Management and an indigent work force are the two wings of the Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd . An industrial dispute resulted in an industrial dispute resulting in these appeals . The arbitrator  An engineering firm in Ahmedabad City employs over 800 workmen in a thriving industry . The gross wages of the workmen have hovered round a harrowing hundred rupees or more in the  The High Court heard the case in depth and felt that some of the legal issues did merit this court's declaratory pronouncement, settlement or no settlement . The Bench and the Bar  An allegedly violent episode broke up the truce between the two, spawned criminal cases against workers, led to charges of go-slow tactics and lock-outs and burst into suspension, discharge and  The Sabha charged the Management by its letter of January 25, 1973 with breach of clause 6 of the Agreement of August 4, 1972 . The most money-loaded item was the grievance about  Management retaliated by an elaborate notice which dilated on its preparedness to negotiate or arbitrate and the Sabha's unreason in rejecting the gesture and persisting on the war path .  All the workmen who are on illegal and unjustified strike since 27-1-1973 should be terminated by way of discharge simpliciter . These workmen, however, may be  An apparent end to a long strike was seemingly in sight with the Sabha sore but driven to surrender . Sabha telegraphed on 9th June that the workers were willing to report for  The 'Labour litigation' began in May 1975 and became 'at each remove a lengthening chain' The current forensic process needs thorough overhaul because it is over-judicialised and under-  Sri Ashok Sen argues that the orders of discharge are de facto dismissals, and therefore liable to be voided if the procedural imperatives for such disciplinary action are not complied with .  The anatomy of a dismissal order is not a mystery, once we agree that substance, not semblance, governs the decision . Legal criteria are not so slippery that verbal manipulations may outwit  The Court will find out from other proceedings or documents connected with the formal order of termination what the true ground for the termination is . If, thus scrutinized, the order has a punitive  An isolated reading of the formal notices terminating their services reveals no stigma, no penalty, no misconduct . The Management admits that as required by the Standing orders it has recorded reasons for the discharge  An arbitrator has exonerated the Management of the charge of dismissal while the High Court has held the action to be dismissal for misconduct . The aim was not to punish the workmen but  Sri A. K. Sen argued that in a dismissal the employee is denied some of the retiral and other benefits which he gets in a simple discharge . The substance of 179 the action  The Court in L. Michael & Anr. v. M/s. P. S. Malvenkar & ors. Mumbai v. C. Prasad & An  Article 226 is a sparing surgery but the lancet operates where injustice suppurates . Arbitrator did investigate and hold that the workmen were guilty of misconduct and the 'sentence  The Supreme Court is final not because it is infallible; it is final . We are what we are because our Constitution-framers have felt the need for a pervasive reserve power in  The High Court is not constituted a Court of appeal over the decision of authorities, administrative or quasi-judicial . The power of judicial supervision of the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution  Section 11A was introduced in purported implementation of the I.L.O. recommendation which expressly referred, inter alia to arbitrators . We see no ground to truncate the natural  Stroud's Judicial Dictionary (Vol. 4 p. 3093) speaks of 'Tribunal in this, wider sense and quoted Fry, L.J. in Dawkins v.  American trend is towards a purpose-oriented rather than a plain-meaning rule in its rigid orthodoxy . U.S. Supreme Court wrote: "When the plain meaning has led to absurd  The judges do every day make law, though it is almost heresy to say so . Mr. Justice Mathew in Kesavananda Bharti's case referred with approval-and so  The Court cannot put into the Act words which 'are not expressed, and which cannot reasonably he implied on any recognised principles of construction . That would be a work of legislation, not of  An arbitrator has all the powers the terms of reference, to which both sides are party, confer . Even if S. 11A is not applicable, an Arbitrator under s.  The Arbitrator has found the Sabha Leadership perverse, held that the strikers should have reasonably reported for work and concluded that the Management had, for survival, to make-do with new recruits  The Arbitrator stressed Clause 6 of the Agreement of December, 1971 which bespoke a no-strike zone for five years . There was reference to the Management's promise to implement the Wage  Arbitrator failed to separate and scan evidence with specific reference to charges against individual workmen . Arbitrator did not engage himself in isolating or identifying any worker or any misconduct . Award even  The right to strike is integral to collective bargaining, says the Supreme Court of America . In India General Navigation and Railway Co. v. Their Workmen, this court did . Allen v  An Industrial Tribunal has to consider the question of punishment, keeping in view the overriding consideration of the full and efficient working of the Industry as a whole . The court after holding that the strike  Industrial Tribunals have been given the power to see whether the termination of service of a workman is justified and to give appropriate relief . As the order of termination was found to be  The High Court has held the discharge wrongful and directed restoration 209 with an equitable amount of back wages . The verdict is inevitable that the discharge is wrongful .  Labour is no more a mere factor in production but a partner in Industry, conceptually speaking . Less than full back wages is a sacrifice by those who can best afford and cannot be demanded  Management had made genuine and persistent efforts to persuade the concerned workmen to call of the strike and join work . Management's limitations in absorbing all the large number discharged employees all at once is  The Supreme Court held that there was "a persistent and obdurate refusal by the workmen to joint duty" notwithstanding the fact that "the management has done everything possible to persuade them  The relation-back doctrine cannot be invoked, says the High Court . 370 workmen are left behind, of whom 239 are admittedly permanent . The remaining 139 alone will be reinstated . The  The High Court declines reinstatement of these 57 hands . The other 74 must be reinstated although nationally but wrongly they are shown as casuals . The reinstated casuals will be put back as  The remaining 139 permanent employees would be paid 50 per cent of the back wages as directed by the High Court . 70 out of 139 permanent workmen directed to be reinstated should be provided actual  The parties are admittedly governed by the [Industrial Employment (Standing Orders Act, 1946] Section 15(2) of which empowers the appropriate Government to make rules, inter alia  Under M.S.Os. 23 and 25 the Management has the power to effect termination of the services of an employee by having recourse to either of them . In action taken under M  Bombay Corporation v. Malvankar was a clerk in the employment or the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking . Her services were terminated on the ground that her record of service was  If termination of service is a colourable exercise of the power vested in the management or is a result of victimization or unfair labour practice, the Industrial Tribunal will have jurisdiction to intervene and  Management laid on the employer's right to terminate the services of a workman by an order of discharge simpliciter under the terms of the contract where there was no lack of bona f  The Sabha accused the Management of flouting the settlement dated the 4th of August , 1972, by not coming to the negotiating table . The attitude adopted by the Sabha was, to say  The finding of the High Court that the order of discharge amounted to one of dismissal cannot be sustained . The language used by the legislature must be regarded as the only source of its intention .  The word 'Tribunal' has been used in three sub-sections of the same section of section 11 . No reason at all is fathomable for the proposition that it means  The High Court, while discharging its functions as envisaged by article 227 of the Constitution of India, does not sit as a court of appeal over the award of the arbitrator . 