 A music performance attended by a large number of persons including two police informers Bankey and Asa Ram was going on on a platform in front of the house of one Ram Saroop  A statement to the police could be used under s. 162 of the Code only for the purpose of contradicting a statement in the witness box under the second part of s. 1,  A large number of persons armed with fire-arms suddenly appeared near a well situated on the southern side of the house of Ram Sarup and opened fire . Natthi, Bharat  Out of the nine accused committed to the Sessions, the learned Sessions Judge acquitted seven, convicted Tahsildar Singh and Shyama Mallah under 14 charges and awarded them various sentences,  A petition was filed by the appellants alleging that the learned Sessions Judge did not allow the Counsel for defence to put omissions amounting to material contradictions to the eye-witnesses  Criminal Procedure Code, 1882 (10 of 1882) prescribed a uniform law to all Courts in India . It was superseded by Act 5 of 1898 and substantial changes were made by  Section 162 introduced new elements: right of the accused to request the Court to refer to the statement of a witness reduced to writing . A duty cast on the Court on the court to refer  By Act 2 of 1945, the following sub-section was added to s. 145 of the Indian Evidence Act . Sub-section (1) of the substituted section attempted to steer clear  The Act of 1898 for the first time introduced an exception enabling the said statement reduced to writing to be used for impeaching the credit of the witness in the manner provided by the Evidence Act  Bose, J., describes the procedure to be followed to contradict a witness under s. 145 of the Evidence Act thus at p. 819: " Resort to section 145 would only  The main section of the main section is to impose a general bar against the use of statement made before the police and the enacting clause in clear terms says that no statement made by any  Section 145 of the Evidence Act indicates the manner in which contradiction is brought out . Unrecorded statement is completely excluded . But recorded one is used for a specified purpose. Unrecorded one is  Under the amending Act of 1955, the prosecution is also allowed to use the statement to contradict a witness with the permission of the Court . This result is not decisive on the question of  A statement under section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be filed in order to show that a witness is making statements in the witness box which he did not make to the police .  Section 162 provides that statements can be used only for the purpose of contradiction . Contradiction means the setting up of one statement against another and not a statement against nothing at all . The  Statement in writing made by a witness before a police officer in the course of investigation can be used only to contradict his statement in the witness-box and for no other purpose . Omissions  An application was filed for summoning eight eye- witnesses on the ground that the learned Sessions Judge did not allow the Counsel for defence to put the omissions amounting to material contradiction to them  Only two omissions relating to the existence of the gas- lantern and the scrutiny of the faces of the deceased by the appellants were put to P. W. 30 .  The main contention advanced was that there was no fair trial of the appellants as they had been deprived of the right of cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses with reference to their statements made  Johari's statement made no mention of the culprits uttering any warning that no one was to run away as they advanced from the well, whereas in Court the witnesses spoke to that  The provisions of the Code from 1861 to 1898 in no way curbed the right of cross-examination on behalf of the accused . The provisions were intended to protect the accused in that no  Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act reads: Cross-examined as to previous statements in writing or reduced into writing . Prosecution has the right to use the statement in the re  Indian Evidence Act provides that a witness may be contradicted by a statement reduced into writing and that is also the use to which the earlier statement can be put under s. 162 of the Code  It is difficult to say as an inflexible rule that any other kind of omission cannot be put to a witness in order to contradict him, when the proper foundation had been laid for  The question may be asked, how is there to be a cross-examination about a previous statement ? It is difficult to illustrate one's meaning by entering into such an exposition . Any one 