 1966 (1) SCR 709 (7 September 1965) 740; 1966 ( 1) SCRs 740 (7 Sept 1965) SARKAR, A.K.  The President of India had made an Order under Art. 359(1) that the right of a person to move any court for the enforcement of the rights conferred by Arts. 21 and  If on its face an order of detention is in terms of the rule, ordinarily, a court is bound to stay its hands and uphold the order . Courts are only entitled to look at  The District Magistrate made the impugned order on his being satisfied that it was necessary to do so with a view to prevent the petitioner from acting in a manner prejudicial to public  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, a member of the Lok Sabha, has moved the Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution for a writ of habeasas .  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia's claim to be released on a number of grounds is not in dispute . The President of India issued a Proclamation under Article 352 of the  The President's Order under Art.359(1) altogether prevents us from entertaining Dr. Lohia's petition and, therefore, it should be thrown out at once . It depri  Defence of India Act gave the Central Government power to make rules providing for the detention of persons without trial for various reasons there mentioned . Rule 30(1) (b) under which the  It is well-settled that courts cannot enquire into the grounds on which the Government thought that it was necessary to make an order of detention . Courts are only entitled to look at  Carltona Ltd. v. Commissioners of Works(1) turned on a statutory Regulation empowering a specified authority to take possession of land for the purposes mentioned in it in various terms but which  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, M.P., has filed this petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution asking for a writ of habeas corpus for release from  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia was lodged in the Hazaribagh Central Jail at 3-30 p.m. on August 10, 1965 . He sent a letter  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia was detained under rule 30(1)(b) of the Defence of India Rules on the ground that his being at large is prejudicial to  The State of Bihar says the petition does not make out a case against the legality of the detention . The only enquiry open to this Court is whether there is or is not an order  The President declared a state of grave emergency by issuing a Proclamation under Art. 352 on October 26, 1962 . This Proclamation of Emergency gave rise to certain extraordinary powers which are to  The President did not make lawless actions lawful, he only took away the fundamental right in Art. 21 in respect of a person proceeded against under the Defence of India Act or any rule  Dr. Lohia claims to be entitled entitled to have the order of the District Magistrate set aside . It is convenient to the allegation of want of want, but it is convenient  Dr. Lohia alleges that there was a conspiracy between the Central Government, the State of Bihar, the Senior Superintendent of Police and the District Magistrate, Patna, to st  Defence of India Rules 1962 were framed by s. 3 of the Defence of . India Ordinance, 1962 (now the Act) The rules provide for various 7 36 subjects such as "  Defence of India Act does not require the imposition of any conditions but only permits it . The only condition that the State Government thought necessary to impose is that the District Magistrates must act within  The question is whether by taking power to prevent Dr. Lohia from acting to the prejudice of "law and order" as against "public order" the District Magistrate went outside  The President's Order takes away the fundamental rights under Arts. 21 and 22 from a person provided he has been detained under the Defence of India Act or the rules made thereunder . The  The words "public order" were considered on some previous occasions in this Court and observations made them are used to prove that maintenance of public order is the same thing as maintenance of law and  The Superintendent Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram Manohar Lohia(3) when dealing with the wording of clause (2) of Art. 19 as amended  A mere disturbance of law and order leading to disorder is not necessarily sufficient for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which subvert the public order are . Dr. Lohia  If this order is valid, Dr. Lohia cannot move this Court for enforcement of his rights conferred by arts . A detenu can question the validity of the detention order-  The impugned order was passed under r. 30 (1) (b) of the rules . The District Magistrate decided to detain the appellant with two objects, firstly,  The expression 'public order' has been construed by this Court in a few cases, the latest of them being The Superintendent, Central Prison, Fatehgarh v. Ram Manoh  The question before us is not really at par with the question' that arose in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras(1) In that case the provisions imp  Dr. Lohia cannot move this Court for the enforcement of His rights under arts. 21 and 22 of the Constitution in view of the President's Order under art.359(1  Patna purported to make an order under r. 3 0 ( 1 ) of the Defence of India Rules . Under r. 30(1) an order of detention of a person can  In the circumstances I agree with my brethren Sarkar and Hidayatullah that the order of detention cannot be sustained . I have not referred to any decisions because they have already been dealt 