 1982 (2) SCR 69; 1982 (1) SCC 379; 1981 (3) SCALE 1837 (8 December 1981) Constitution of India Article 309-Provis  The High Court struck down clauses (a) and (c) of rule 4 and the proviso to rule 7 of the government Order dated March 22, 1968 as 71 being violative  There is no substance in the contention of the petitioners that they stood on a separate and superior footing for the purpose of seniority in the new organisation . At the time of formation of  The second world war left in its wake conditions of scarcity of foodgrains and other essential commodities in different parts of the country . An informal (non-statutory) scheme of ration  Government of Maharashtra announced its decision to introduce a statutory rationing scheme in Bombay and the Industrial Complex around it including some areas of Thana District . Bombay Rationing Organisation (for short  For fixation of seniority of persons in the cadre of Senior Clerks/Rationing Inspectors/Deputy Accountants is in the following terms: "Senior Cler  The seniority of Government servants in the cadre of Senior Clerks, Rationing Inspectors and Deputy Accountants fixed on the basis of the rules in (a) and  Government Resolution Agriculture and Cooperation Department No. EST l 1060/40002/ SIV dated the 1st April, 1963 . Those who were drawn in the Bombay Foodgrains Distribution  A Gradation List of Rationing Inspectors, Senior Clerks and Deputy Accountants working in the BRO as on April 1, 1968 was published by the Controller of R  The main contention put forward by them in the writ petition was that the impugned lists were violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution . The main attack levelled in the  The petition was allowed and clauses (a) and (c) of rule 4 and the proviso to rule 7 of the impugned Government Resolution dated March 22, 1968 were struck  Government Resolution dated March 22, 1968 infringed Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution . Petitioners in the impugned seniority list were recruited as Supply Inspectors in the former CF  The High Court was wrong in over- ruling the preliminary objection raised before it by the present appellants that the writ petition in so far it sought to challenge the legality of the Government Resolution  The writ-petitioners did not file any objections against the ranking given to them in the said list, which was based on the principles enunciated in the Government Resolution dated March  Government Resolution of 1974 was a general order applicable to all non-PSC personnel working on a temporary or ad hoc basis in the Secretariat as well as the various departments of the State  Sikri, J. said that a claim based on the infraction of fundamental rights ought not to be entertained if made beyond the period fixed by the Limitation Act for the enforcement of  The challenge raised by the petitioners against these promotions is liable to be rejected on the preliminary ground that it is most highly belated . Each person ought to be entitled to sit back and  The petitioners have not furnished any valid explanation whatever for the inordinate delay on their part in approaching the Court with the challenge against the seniority principles laid down in the Government Resolution of  Petitioners were members of the staff of the . staff under the Controller of Foodgarins distribution, Bombay, . Consisting of 384 posts which were to be merged with a new Bombay  The High Court upheld the seniority rules of the Income-tax Service . It said it was not wrong to regard the post of a regular clerk in the other departments as lower in grade  Rule 4 states that the seniority of Government servants in the cadre of Senior Clerks/Rationing Inspectors/Deputy Accountants shall be refixed in accordance with  Rule 7 clearly lays down that the operation of clause (a) of rule 4 is subject to the limitation specified therein, namely, that in the case of merged Government servants their inter se  The impugned seniority lists in so far as they have been drawn up in devitation from the legal position explained above call for immediate revision . 