 High Court held victim's evidence satisfactory and found sufficient corroboration on material aspects, believed extra-judicial confession of accused being voluntary not obtained by force, coercion etc., but accepted victim's  The State filed an appeal an against the acquittal before the High Court . The complainant-appellant also filed a criminal revision challenging the legality of the order of acquittal .  The medical officer was of the opinion that the abrasion measuring one and a half inches in length found on the medial side of the labia majora and the redness around the  The whole case is at large for review by the High Court both as to the facts and the law and it is clothed with the plenary 926 powers to go through the entire evidence  Madhya Pradesh High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 1023/83 v. R.S. Nayak and Another, [[ 1988] 2 SCC 602] at page 6  Tulna told her mother that the respondent was a dirty fellow and he had asked her to suck his private part . Tulna did not narrate the entire episode to her mother on the  The father of the respondent Bhagwan Dass (DW-2) was not prepared to believe their accusation . He called his son and questioned him and admitted his abominable crime  The prosecution launched against the respondent on account of some enmity between the two families and that the prosecution has not adduced any acceptable evidence for holding the respondent guilty of the offence  The High Court found the respondent guilty of the offence only under Section 354 IPC and sentenced him to pay a fine of Rs.3,000, in default to suffer simple imprisonment for  High Court entertained a doubt with regard to the accusation of rape holding there was no sign of injuries and held that the offence is not one punishable under Section 376 IPC but only one under  There is absolutely no evidence, even to remotely suggest, that there was any enmity or any kind of misunderstanding between the families of the respondent and PW 5 till this incident . The  An appeal against acquittal provided under Section 378 of the Code of Criminal Procedure falls under Chapter XXIX under the caption "Appeals" The Privy Council in Sheo Swarup  The High Court has consistently taken the view that in cases of appeals against acquittal as a matter of jurisdiction, the whole case is at large for review by the High Court both as to  In the cross-examination, the medical officer, PW 4, concluded about attempt to rape, on account of abrasion and redness on labia majora and minora respectively  Rape is a legal term and not a diagnosis to be made by the medical officer treating the victim . The medical officer should mention the negative facts in his report, but should not give his  When Nawal Uncle held apart, then there was some white liquid coming out from his male organ, says the High Court . "Nawal Chacha pressed my mouth so I could  There is an alarming and shocking increase of sexual offences committed on children . This is due to the reasons that children are ignorant of the act of rape and are not able to offer resistence 