 1967 SC 1480; 1967 (2) SCR 650 (20 February 1967) The Pondicherry General Sales Tax Act (10 of 1965) was published on June 30, 1965  The principal Act was not saved for the reason that it contained certain provisions relating to the Appellate Tribunal and a Schedule independent of the madras Act . The core of a taxing statute  Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of fundamental rights . Pondicherry General Sales Tax Act, 10 of 1965 (hereinafter referred to as the  Mr. Setalvad relied on the majority decision in in re. [Delhi Laws Act, 1912], etc. case (1) and in particular on the summary by B  The learned Attorney-General had canvassed the proposition that a plenary legislative power included in it the power of delegation . The divergence of opinion on that question was (1) as to  Fazl Ali J. was of the view that the legislature itself must formally discharge its primary function and not through others . Mukherjea J. took up an intermediate posture holding  Fazl Ali J. stated as follows: "The situation with which the respective legislatures were faced when these Acts were passed, was that there were certain State or States with no local  It may be that a mere refusal may not amount to abdication if the legislature instead of going through the full formality of legislation applies its mind to an existing statute enacted by another  The Pondicherry General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 13 of 1966, received the President's assent on November 2, 1966 and was published on November 7,1966 .  Pondicherry was a French possession, but was transferred to the suzeranity of the Government of India . The de jure transfer became effective on 16th August, 1962, when  The petitioner moved a writ petition challenging the validity of the proceedings on the ground that the principal Act was 664 void because of excessive delegation of legislative functions by the Pondicherry Legislature to  A further amendment substituted the following for sub-s. (2) of s. 2 of the principal Act: "(2) The Madras General Sales Tax Rules, 1959 and any  Pondicherry Government could either bring into force the 'Madras Act as it" stood when the principal- Act was published on 30th June; 1965 or could enforce the Madras  Petition referred to the decision of this Court in Vasantial Maganhaiv Sanjanwala v. The State of Bombay and Others(1) and urged that the principal Act  Madras Act was in fact amended to some extent by the Madras General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1965 (No. 3 of 1965) which came into force with effect  Some provisions of the Madras Act which were to- come into force, in Pondicherry in the form laid down by the . Legislature in the principal Act itself would have been totally  The Amending Act effectively cured the defect in the principal Act on the basis of which its validity was challenged on behalf of the petitioner before us . The petition fails and is dismissed with costs 