 The three-year-old form of the form was created on the same basis as the form of a new form . The form is similar to that of a form used in the form  Rule 12 was amended retrospectively from April 9, 1976 by which seniority was to be determined by the length of continuous service on a post in the service irrespective of the date of confirmation  Article 235 does not confer upon the High Courts the power to make rules relating to conditions of service of judicial officers attached to District Courts and the courts subordinate thereto . The power of control vested  The control vested in the High Court by the first part of Art. 235 is, therefore subject to any law regulating seniority as envisaged by the second part of that article . The  The High Court was not justified in applying the rule of rotation at the time of confirmation of the members of the superior judicial service who were appointed to that service by promotion and by direct recruitment  In the instant case rule 12 which was amended retrospectively from April 9, 1976 by a notification dated December 31, 1976 is invalid because no such nexus is shown to exist .  Petitioners 1 and 2-Shri B. S. Yadav and Shri V. P.Aggarwal- were promoted in an officiating capacity to the Haryana  Petitioners 2 to 6 were Promoted to the Superior Judicial Service between January 1972 and August 1972 . Petitioners 4 to 22 whose dates of promotion between August 1972 and July 1978 were not  Rule states that promotion to the Punjab Civil Service (Judicial Branch) must be made by promotion from the High Court . No person who is not a direct recruit is eligible for direct recruitment  The Punjab Superior Judicial Service Rules, 1963, as amended upto November 1966 apply to the State of Haryana . The rules were amended from time to time with or without the consultation  Haryana First Amendment Rules, 1977, superseded amendments made by 1972 . Rule 8(2) was amended for the purpose of restoring quota between promotees and direct recruits . Rule  The High Court has to deal with one set of officers under its control on the basis that the date of confirmation is the correct criterion of seniority . Sometimes, the administrative decision satisfies neither  Questions regarding confirmation, seniority and the equitable integration of direct recruits and promotees had plagued the High Court for nearly two decades, even before the separate State of Haryana was formed  Haryana First Amendment Rules 1972 provided that seniority of the members of the Service, direct recruits or promoted officers, shall be determined by the length of the continuous service on a post  The confirmation of eight promotees was evidently postponed . In the case of respondents 6 to 8, the period of probation of two years was reduced by the High Court substantially . The High Court  The High Court amended the quarterly Gradation List in compliance with the amendments made by the Governor of Haryana in rule 12 . But it did not amend the Gradation . List of  Report: Seniority of the members of the . Superior Judicial Service is . exclusively within the control of the High Court under Article 235 of the Constitution . Report: "The High Court inevitably  The Haryana Writ Petition was filed in this Court by the promotees in July 1978 and the Punjab Writ Petition in February 1979 . The High Court was spared the need to have a  There is no direct decision on the question whether the Governor, in the exercise of power conferred by proviso to Article 309, has the power to frame rules regulating the seniority of judicial  There is no power in the High Court to pass a law, but rules made by it may have the force of law . The High Court, not the executive, possesses control over State  The State legislature has the power to pass laws regulating the recruitment and conditions of service of judicial officers of the State . But it was necessary to make a suitable provision enabling the exercise of that  The first part of Article 235 is therefore subject to any law regulating seniority as envisaged by the second part of that article . The power to make such law is vested by Article 309  The danger to judicial independence springs more from within than from without, says Ravi Agrawal . He says the judiciary is insulated from executive interference and once the appointment of a judicial officer  Rule 12 of the Haryana Superior Judicial Service Rules as it then stood, as it exists now under the amendment of 1976 . The High Court alone had the power to confirm a District  Dr. Chitale has drawn our attention to Annexure P-I to the Writ Petition which has been further elaborated in Annexure II to his written submissions . The promotees have  Promotees, on the other hand, have been confirmed and assigned seniority one after the other, in numbers exceeding two, when there were no direct recruits . Not only, says  Rule 8 only fixes the respective quota of recruits from the two sources specified in clauses (i) and (ii) of sub-rule (1) Rules 10, 11 and 12 provide  The High Court was not justified in applying the rule of rotation at the time of confirmation of members of the Superior Judicial Service who were appointed to that Service by promotion and by direct recruitment .  The High Court is unable to uphold the order of the High Court by which these three respondents were confirmed before they were normally due for 1068 confirmation . The order is in clear violation of  Rule 12, as in force in Punjab, lays down the length of continuous service in a cadre post as the guiding criterion for fixing seniority . That rule was notified by the Governor  A 1070 long retrospective effect was given to that amendment from April 1, 1970 . Fortunately, that amendment was withdrawn by the successor Government on September 2, 1977\. The High Court quashes  The confirmations, promotions and other orders passed by the High Court during the pendency of these Writ Petitions are, according to the interim order passed by this Court, subject to the 