 The appellant was elected to the House of the People from a constituency in the State of Madhya Pradesh . The appeal was filed more than 30 days after the order of the Election Tribunal .  The entire sub-s. (2) of s. 29 of the Limitation Act has to be read as an integrated provision and the conjunction "and" connects the two parts .  Appeal by special leave from judgment and order dated April 23, 1963, of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in 1st Appeal No. 23 of 1963 .  This Court in State of U.P v. v. Kaushaliya etc. etc. upheld this construction and approved the judgment of Chagla C.J. in the  An appeal under s. 116A of the Representation of the People Act would be "under the Code of Civil Procedure", for s 116A(2) enacts, to read  The question of the import and function of the conjunction 'and' was the subject of elaborate consideration by a Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in a decision in Sehat Ali Khan  An appeal by special leave raises the question of true construction of the provisions of s. 29(2) of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (9 of 1908), in the context  Mr Pathak, learned counsel for the appellant, placed before us the different aspects of the question raised, and I shall deal with his argument in the appropriate context in the course of my  Article 156 of the First Schedule to the Limitation Act says that to an appeal under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, to a High Court, except in the cases provided for by  The right of appeal was conferred under s. 540 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882 . It is not correct to say, as contended by the learned counsel, that a right  The learned Judges referred to art. 151 of the Limitation Act and concluded thus: (1919) 1 L. R. [43 Mad. 51.] The Legislature did not think  The High Court held that the appeal was filed before he District Judge under s. 476-B of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that under art. 154 of the Limitation Act  The first Limitation Act was passed in the year 1859 (Act XIV of 1859) Section 3 of that act provided: "When, by any law now or hereafter to be  The Limitation Act was conceived to be an exhaustive code prescribing for every conceivable proceeding, whether suit, appeal or application, subject to the saving in Part V of the Act . No justification  Bombay High Court held that s. 29(2) of the Limitation Act would not apply to an application for special leave to appeal under sub-s. (3) of s  Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Sehat Khan v Qavi Khan said the majority of the majority would not come within its purview but for this provision . Learned counsel for  The contention is that sub-s. (3) of s. 116-A of the Act not only provides a period of limitation for such an appeal but also the circumstances under which  The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs . Dayal J. Dayal says that the appeal is dismissed, but for different reasons .  The Election Tribunal passed the order on January 5, 1963 and the appeal was filed on February 11, 1963 . The delay was of a few days . The appeal should be deemed to be  The High Court had to consider whether the appeal could be said to be in time as it fell to be governed by art. 156 of the First Schedule of the Limitation Act . The  Article 156 is one of the eight article& contained in the second division which deals with appeals . It is not couched in language similar to that used in art. 120 and art.  The entry deals with appeals "under" the Code of Civil Procedure . The Calcutta High Court does not appear to have given . the full consideration in Cohen's case(1)  Aapeal must be dismissed with costs as proposed by his learned brother . 