 INSC 20; AIR 1950 SC 188; 1950 SCR 459 (26 May 1950) CITATOR INFO : [1953 SC 325] (13) F [1954  The functions and duties of the Industrial Tribunal are very much like those of a body discharging judicial functions, although it is not a Court . The Tribunal is discharging functions very near those  The Tribunal has the same powers as are vested in a civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure . It may admit and call for evidence at any stage of the proceeding and has the power  It appears that a similar objection was raised in Rex v. Electricity Commissioner's, London Electricily' (1) [[1896] A.C. 245.] Joint Committee Co.  The power under article 136 of the Constitution being a special power is to be exercised only in special cases . But in some cases a limitation will be imposed on the scope of the appeal by  Bharat Bank Limited, Delhi, the appellant, is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act . Its employees made certain demands and as a result of an unfavourable response from the  Article 136 empowers this Court to grant special leave against orders, and determinations etc. of any tribunal in the territory of India . The word "order" in article 136 has not  It was argued that the plain words of the article should not be given a narrow meaning when the intention of the Constitution was to confer the widest power on this Court . The ambit of  The word "Court" originally meant the King's Palace but acquired the meaning of a place where justice was admin-tered, and the person or persons who administer it . The intention of  An attempt was made to define the words "judicial" and "quasi judicial" in the case of Cooper v. Wilson . The phrase "industrial dispute" has been defined in section  Industrial Tribunal is given power to adjudicate on such a dispute by section 7 of the statute to an Industrial Tribunal . The words underlined clearly imply that the dispute has to be adjudicated  The Industrial Tribunal has all the necessary attributes of a Court of justice . It has to make the adjudication in accordance with the provisions of the Act as laid down in section 7 of the  Section 15 enacts as follows :--- "(1) Where an industrial dispute has been referred to a Tribunal for adjudication, it shall hold its 483 proceedings expeditiously and shall  The final decision of the Commissioners is not to be operative until it has been approved by the two Houses of Parliament . I find nothing inconsistent with the view that they act judicially and  The decision of the tribunal has no force till a declaration is made by the Government cannot be sustained . I do not see any difficulty in testing the propriety of the Tribunal's decision .  The High Court could exercise powers under section 226 and could quash an award but it was said that under article 136 this power should not be exer- cised in an appeal .  The Constitution of India is not mo- delled on the Constitution of Australia and that being so, any observations made in decisions given under that Consti- tution cannot be held to  Reg. 5C gives Committees power to decide controversies between subjects relating to their rights and the regulation purports to make those decisions binding and authoritative . I am not satisfied that the words of  The award given by an Industrial Tribunal in respect either of bonus or higher wages, etc. is enforceable by its own force and by the coercive machienary of the Act . An  The word "tribunal" has been used in previous legisla- tion in a number of statutes and it is difficult to think that the Constitution intended to limit its meaning to only  The Tribunal may be 499 wrong in the view they have taken but it seems to me this is not a question of that vital character which would justify the grant of special leave under article 136  Bakshi Tek Chand said that though a Tribunal consisting of three persons was appointed to adjudicate on the dispute, the award has only been signed by two of them . The idea of three  An appeal against an award made by the All India Industrial Tribunal, dated the 19th of January, 1950\. The Tribunal was constituted by the Central Govern- ment under section 7 of the  Industrial Tribunal, it is said, is an administrative body exercising quasi-judicial functions and this Court cannot be called upon to exercise the powers of an appellate Court in respect to the decision of  The words 'judicial power' mean the power which every sovereign authority must have of necessity to decide controversies between its subjects, or between itself and its subjcets, whether the rights relate  Sir Maurice Gwyer in his deposition before the Committee on Minister's Powers appointed by the English Parliament in 1929 stated that "a clear distinction is to be drawn between judicial and quasij  There is no distinction made in this respect between Conciliation Boards and Courts of Enquiry on the One hand and Industrial Tribunals on the other . The same powers are conferred 5  An industrial dispate as has been said on many occasions is nothing but a trial of strength between the employers and the workmen . The Tribunal is not bound by the rigid rules of law  Article 136 empowers us in our discretion to hear appeals from pronouncements of all infe- rior courts and tribunals . If the tribunal is a full-fledged judicial tribunal  The Tribunal is not bound to decide the disputes by application of the ordinary law of the land . Article 136 of the Constitution does not contemplate a determination given by the Industrial Tribunal .  Desai: "I entirely agree with the judgment just now delivered by Mukherjea J.  J. and I have nothing to add" Desai's appeal dismissed . Des 