 The appellant and respondents applied for the post of Reader in Psychology in Lucknow University . The minimum qualification for the position was a Doctorate degree or a published work of high standard in the  The power of the Chancellor under section 31(8)(a) is purely of administrative character and is not in the nature of judicial or quasijudicial power . No judicial or  The conclusiveness of the decision without the need for confirmation or adoption by any other authority is generally regarded as one of the features of judicial power . But the order made by a statutory  The principle of equality enshrined in Article 14 must guide every state action, whether it be legislative, executive or quasi-judicial . Km. Neelima Misra does not possess  Selection Committee graded the candidates as follows: Ms. Neelima Misra, Dr. Mukta Rani Rastogi and Dr. Harinder Kaur Paintal . The Executive  Writ Petition was filed on 17 August 1978 before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court and it was admitted on 93 30 March 1979 . Ten years later the writ petition was listed  Three authorities involved in the selection of University teachers; (i) Selection Committee, (ii) Executive Council and (iii) Chancellor . Selection Committee has the liberty to recommend one or more  Section 57(2)(e) of the Bombay Univer- sity Act, 1974 is almost parallel and it states that if the Executive Council does not choose to appoint from amongst the  Subba Rao, J., as he then was speaking for this Court in G. Nageshwara Rao v. Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation, [[1959] 1 SCR  The Chancellor's decision is called for when the Executive Council disagree with the recommendation of the Selection Committee . The matter is referred to the Chancellor under Section 31(8)(a) of the  The power of the Chancellor under Section 31(8)(a) is purely of administrative character . No judicial or quasi-judicial duty is imposed on the Chancellor and any reference to judicial duty  The Executive Council appears to have committed an error in stating that the appellant has lacked the essential qualifi- cation and the Selection Committee has relaxed the essential qualification . The Chancellor was, 