 The High Court held that the appellant had ceased to be the President of a Municipality . The appellant's party claimed that the motion was lost while the respondent no. 1 claimed that it  Normally writ petitions, are decidedon the basis of affidavits . The discretion exercised by the High Court in selecting for cross-examination those deponents whom it considered to be crucial was proper  The police had no business to record any statement, as the High Court has it self pointed out . The High Court held that the appellant had ceased to be President of that municipality since May  A motion of no confidence could be said to have been carried in case of a municipality consisting of 25 councillors if at least 17 councillors voted for such a motion . A meeting of the Kal  Shri Narayanbhai Sadabhai Parmar proposed to preside over Kalol Municipality meeting on May 6, 1973 . Vice President Barot sent a telegram to the  The High Court passed an interlocutory order for the production of six persons rho had filed affidavits on behalf of respondent No. 1 and two persons Who had filed . for cross  The petition filed by respondent No. 1 was ultimately accepted by the High Court . The High Court held that the Collector had no jurisdiction to make such inquiry and record the impugned order  The object of article 226 is to provide a quick and inexpensive remedy to aggrieved parties . In a petition under article 226 the High Court has jurisdiction to try issues both of fact and law  The High Court selected for cross-examination five councillors who, according to respondent No. 1, were present in the meeting wherein the motion of no confidence was alleged to have been passed .  Mr. Amin has next challenged the correctness of the finding of the High Court that 17 councillors hid supported the motion of no confidence . The High Court, according to the learned counsel, was  In the earlier meeting which was held on November 1, 1972, a motion of no confidence against the appellant had been supported by 16 councillors . After the meeting of May 6, 1973 Patel  There is nothing in the language of section 36 of the Gujarat Municipalities Act reproduced earlier which makes it necessary to specify a ground when passing a motion of no confidence against the President . The  There is, in our opinion, no force in the appeal which fails and is dismissed with costs . The case consumed eighteen long days of a Division Bench of the High Court . The High  Written hearsay has ceased to be anathema in Anglo-American or Socialist countries and in our country of distance, poverty and delay, processual changes in this direction may lessen cost  There cannot be an uglier, more distasteful, more disagreeable and more distorted form of democracy than one we have seen on evidence in the civic affairs of Kalol . 