 Half of the area known as Barubari Union No. 12, and a portion of Chilahati village admeasuring 512 acres were agreed to be transferred by India to Pakistan  Pakistan's title to Chilahati had been lost by adverse possession of the area . The area was a part of the territory of India under Art. 1 of the Constitution . Pakistan  Six appellants petitioned the Calcutta High Court to stop the transfer of a portion of Berubari Union No. 12 and a village of 433 Chilahati to Pakistan  After this agreement was entered into, the President of India referred three questions to this Court for consideration and report thereon, under Art.143(1) of the Constitution . President of  The appellants claimed the issue of a writ of in the nature of mandamus commanding the respondents to forbear from proceeding any further with the survey and demarcation of the area of  An earlier version of this article stated that the court had rejected the claim that the village of Chilahati was a part of Debiganj Thana and had been allotted to Pakistan  A-1 purports to have been prepared by Shashibhushan Chatterjee, F.R.G.S. & Sons, of the District of Jalpa  The map bears no date and no evidence is adduced to show when it was prepared . The map in question clearly does not fall under the latter category of maps .  The location of the villages in the different Thanas cannot be regarded as a matter within the exclusive knowledge of the respondents and in any case, it has to be proved by the production of  It was urged before the learned trial Judge that Chilahati admeasuring about 512 acres which is proposed to be transferred to Pakistan is not a part of Debiganj Thana  A small portion of land admeasuring about 512 acres which is being transferred to Pakistan is a part of Chilahati situated within the jurisdiction of Debiganj Thana . The  The Constitution (Amendment of the First and Fourth Sche- dules) Order 1950, however, made a change and brought the territory of the State of West Bengal into line with the  The West Bengal Government knew all the time that it was an area which belonged to Pakistan and which had to be transferred to it . The respondents are seeking to give to Pakistan what belongs under 