 S. 3(3-C)--Government of India Notifications dated November 28, 1974 and July 11, 1975--Fixing prices of levy sugar on zonal basis--Validity  Owners of sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh challenged the validity of the orders on the grounds that they were ultra vires the Act and violative of their fundamental rights . They said prices of levy  The price of sugar is determined by the Central Government having regard to the factors mentioned in . (a) to (d) of sub-s. (3-C) The words  An instruction may be treated as legislative even when it is not issued formally but by circular or a letter or the like . What matters is the substance and not the form, or the name  The Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mills v. The Union of India, [1973] 2 SCR 860; A.K. Kraipak & Ors. etc. v  Judicial review is not concerned with matters of economic policy . It does not substitute its judgment for that of the legislature or its agents as to matters within the province of either .  The decisions in Anakapalle and Panipat do not require reconsideration . Whether the policy should be altered to divide the sugar industry into groups of units with similar cost char-  The prices of levy sugar have been determined arbitrarily with reference to the average cost profiles of factories grouped together in zones without regard to their individual capacity and cost characteristics . Such prices do not re  The present system of fixing prices according to the regions, where the factories are located, is based on "averaging wide cost disparities" The Indian Sugar Mills' Association (ISMA)  The Court has rejected the extreme contention that prices should be fixed unitwise, i.e., on the basis of actual cost incurred by each unit . Rejects the contention that it  The Sugar Enquiry Commission in its 1965 report ex- pressed the view that "cost-plus" basis of price fixation perpetuates inefficiency in the industry and is, therefore,  Shelat, J. states: 'The Government was confronted with two main problems (a) deterioration in the sugar industry, and (b) the conflicting interests of the manufacturer, the  Section 3 empowers the Central Government to control production, supply, distribution, etc., of essential commodities . The power contained in sub-section (1) of section 3 is exercisable  Sub-section (3-A) empowers the Central Government to regulate in accordance with the provisions of the sub-sec- tion the price of any foodstuff sold in a locality  Sub-section (3-C) was inserted in sec. 3 of Act 36 of 1967 . The court in Panipat [1973] 2 SCR 860,870 says  Tariff Commis- sion in 1958 and Sugar Enquiry Commission in 1965 had worked out the zonal cost-schedules on the basis of averaged recovery and duration .  The expression "having regard to" must be understood in the context in which it is used in the stat- ute . The words do not mean that the Government cannot, after taking  The words "having regard to" in the sub-section are the legislative instruction for the general guidance of the Government in determining the price of sugar . They are not strictly mandatory, but  To distinguish legislative and administrative functions is "difficult in theory and impossible in practice", says Wade . He asks: "And what of 'directions of a general character' given by  The element of general application is often cited as a distinct feature of legislative activity . A quasi judicial order emanates from adjudication which is the part of the administrative process resembling a judicial decision  An earlier version of this article stated that the price of sugar was fixed in accordance with an order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2) in Renus  The Government cannot fix any arbitrary price. It cannot fix prices on extraneous considerations: Renusagar, (supra). Price fixation is in the nature of a legislative action even when  The doctrine of judicial review implies that the reposi- tory of power acts within the bounds of the power delegated and he does not abuse his power . It is not only sufficient that  The impugned orders are undoubtedly based on an expert study by experts . The conclusions reached by the Central Government in exercise of its statutory power are expert conclusions which are not shown to be  The Court has neither the means nor the knowledge to reevaluate the factual basis of the impugned orders . The Due Process Clause does not require the feel of the expert to be suppl  Price fixation is not within the province of the courts, says Jagannatha Shetty, J. in M/s. Gupta Sugar Works, (supra): "the court does  The civil writ petitions are, in the circum- stances, dismissed . However, we do not make any order as to costs . Petitions dismissed . 