 Madras Buildings (Lease & Rent Control) Act, 1949 (Mad. XXV of 1949), s. 13-Constitution of India, Art. 14. (2)  An appeal against a judgment of a Division Bench of the High Court of Madras on a certificate under Arts. 132 and 133(1) of the Constitution, raises for consideration the constitution  Mrs. Madan obtained a further lease of the property from the representatives of Sir Haji Ismail Sait's estate for a further period of 7 years from June 1935 . Mrs.  P. J. Irani, the reversionary lessee called upon the second respondent to surrender possession in 174 accordance with the conditions of his lease, but the latter declined to do  The High Court quashed s. 13 of the 176 Act on the State Government to exempt "buildings or class of buildings" from the operation of the Act is constitutionally valid . The  The High Court ruled that s. 13 of the Act was inconsistent with the Constitution and void . The Act was the latest in a series of enactments and orders dating back to the period  The High Court held that while s. 13 of the Act was constitutionally valid, any individual order of exemption passed by the Government could be the subject of judicial review by the Courts for finding  If the High Court were right in their view that the order of exemption was passed for reasons which did not fall within the purpose for which the power was conferred by s. 13 of the  Advocate-General filed a memorandum setting out the reasons why exemption was granted in the three cases before the Court . Sri Chettiar elected to take it on lease only for a period of  The appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs to the contesting second respondent . The High Court characterised reason No. 5 as really not a reason at all .  One Sir Hajee Ismail Sait had a certain plot of land in the city of Madras . He granted a 189 lease of that land sometime in 1914 to one Venkiah  The High Court had called upon the Government to state the reasons why it had exercised its power under a. 13 exempting the Gaiety Theatre premises from the operation of the Act . Sri  The High Court had no power to act as if it were sitting in appeal over the Government's decision . It was unnecessary for the High Court to ask the Government to state the reasons for  The Government's action in exempting the Gaiety Theatre premises from the operation of the Act was within the scope of the act . The High Court does not seem to have considered the case 