 1987 AIR 386; 1987 SCR 435; 1987 (1) SCC 124; 1986 JT 996; 1986 (2) SCALE 960 . 1989 SC1185 (8  It is the High Court which is being supplanted by the Administrative Tribunal . The office of Chairman of the Tribunal, therefore, for all practical purposes should be equated with the office of  The provisions of the Act in regard to the composition of the Administrative Tribunal are weighted in favour of members of the Services . This value discounting of the judicial members does have the effect of  All the powers of the Courts, except those of the Supreme Court, in regard to matters specified therein vest in the Tribunal--either Central or State . Barring of the jurisdiction of the  The power of judicial review is an integral part of our constitutional system and without it, there will be no Government of laws and the rule of law would become a teasing illusion and a promise  Constitution which, more than any other, is basic and fundamental to the mainte- nance of democracy and the rule of law, it is the power of judicial review . If by  Article 323A authorising exclusion of the juris- diction of the High Court under Articles 226 and 227 must provide for an effective alternative institutional mechanism or authority for judi- cial  The High Court is being supplant- ed by the Administrative Tribunal and it must inspire confidence in the public mind that it is a highly competent and expert mechanism with judicial approach and objectivity  There can be no doubt that the power of appointment and promotion vested in the executive can have prejudicial effect on the independence and impartiality of the members of the Tribunal . Promotion as Vice  Ranganath Misra, J.R. J. ordered the Government to set up a permanent bench of the Administrative Tribunal at every place where there is a seat of the High Court  Dr. Ambedkar described Article 32 as the 'soul' and 'heart' of the Constitution . The right to move the High Court in its writ jurisdiction--unlike the  In 30 years following the enforcement of the Constitution, not only has India's population more than doubled but also the number of litigations before the courts including the High Courts has greatly increased  It is possible to set up an alternative institution in place of the High Court for providing judicial review . The Tribunal has been contemplated as a substitute and not as supplemen- tal to  Sub-section (2) prescribing the qualification for Vice-Chairman provides that he should be or have been a Judge of a High Court; or (bb) for at least five  The retiring age of 62 or 65 for the different categories is in accord with the pattern and fits into the scheme in comparable situations . The fact that such people would be required to go out 