 The appellant committed breach of the contract by refusing to pay the rest of the money and to take delivery of the aero-scrap . The respondent thereupon cancelled the contract and forfe  The question as to whether the element of unreasonableness can even be taken into the fact that the price mentioned does not include sales-vendor, which are not relevant for the  The respondent ultimately forfeited the entire sum of Rs. 2,50,000 which, according to it, was earnest money . The buyer has to deposit with the company 25% of  The appellants instituted suit No. 2745 of 1947 in the Original Side of the Calcutta High Court against the respondents for recovery of the sum of Rs. 2,50,  The plaintiffs' suit was dismissed by the learned Single Judge and, on appeal, the Division Bench, have held that the sum of Rs. 2,50,000 paid by the appell  Benjamin: "An earnest must be a tangible thing. That thing must be given at the moment at which the contract is concluded, because it is something given to bind the contract" Benjamin  In Soper v. Arnold, the House of Lords had to consider the right of the plaintiff therein to claim a refund of the deposit made by him . The plaintiff had contracted to purchase  An earnest must be a tangible thing, in which definition it may be that a deposit is included, but in the old cases it was always some tangible thing . Wright J., observes at  An appeal for refund of earnest money was heard in a case involving a scrap dealer . The judge said the amount of Rs. 2,50,000 paid by the appellant constitutes earnest money  The High Court said the amount of Rs. 2,50,000 deposited by the appellants is "earnest money" under clause 9 of the Terms of Business . The High  The decision in Maula Bux v. Union of India(1) had no occasion to consider the test of reasonableness . The learned Attorney General has pointed out that the decisions  Mr. Maheshwari has relied upon the decision of this Court in Fateh Chand v Balkishan Das . The High Court had to consider the applicability of s. 74  Mr. Maheshwari argued that the contract contains a stipulation by way of penalty and therefore s.74 is attracted . Appeal dismissed . 