 A plot of land was put to auction by the Delhi Development Authority D.D.A. in October 1980 . Skipper Construction Company offered the highest bid in A sum of Rs 9  Delhi High Court passed an order permitting Skipper to commence construction in accordance with the sanctioned plans subject to deposit of a sum of Rupees twenty lakhs in two instalments and Rs  Tejwant Singh and Surinder Kaur were found guilty of contempt of the High Court in 1993 . They failed to furnish a bank guarantee in the amount of Rs.11 crores  The first concern of this Court was to reimburse the persons who purchased space in the said building prior to January 29, 1991 . Their claims were said to be in the region of Rupees  The amounts received from the purchasers has actually been utilised for raising the construction which has now vested in the D.D.A. in terms of the orders of the Delhi High  Sri Jaitley has pointed out the transaction of lease relating to he property at No.3, Aurangzeb Road, New Delhi . It is submitted that this property really belongs to  The plot, the construction raised thereon and the monies already paid towards the sale consideration of the said plot have all vested absolutely in the D.D.A. free from all  The Calcutta High Court held that no technicality can prevent the Court from doing justice in exercise of its inherent powers . It held that the object of Rule 2-A of Order  A Professor of Law, S.Ottolenghi in his article "From Peeping Behind the Corporate Veil, to Ignoring it Completely" says "the concept of 'p  The concept of corporate entity evolved to encourage and promote trade and commerce but not to commit illegalities or to defraud people . Tejwant Singh and members of his family have created several  In Reid, the Privy Council made the following observations which we find of crucial relevance to our present-day society . Bribery is an evil practice which threatens the foundations of any civil  D.D.A. must be held equally liable to reimburse the purchasers in full, the court said . D.A stood by and took no action whatsoever while Skipper issued  The pre-January 29, 1991 purchasers have to be reimbursed in full which means that they should also be paid interest at the appropriate rate on the amounts advanced by them to Sk  Tejwant Singh and his wife are directed to deposit in this Court a sum of Rupees ten crores within two months from today . In default, steps will be taken to sell  Judges of this Court are also permitted to ask in anguish, "what have we made of our country in less than fifty years"? Where has the respect and regard for lag gone? And 