 The appellant was employed with the respondent as Salesman at its Delhi Sales Depot on a salary of Rs. 520/per month from 8th December, 1973 . His service was abruptly terminated  The termination of service being, for a reason other than the excepted category, it would indisputably be retrenchment within the meaning of section 2(oo) of the Industrial  Mohan Lal was employed with the respondent M/s Bharat Electronics Limited as Salesman at its Delhi 521 Sales Depot . His service was abruptly terminated by letter dated 12th October  An apparent contradiction which stares in the eye on the stand taken by the respondent is overlooked by the Labour Court . There is not even a whisper of any period of probation prescribed for the appointment  The Labour Court concluded that notwithstanding the fact that the appellant was not shown to have been placed on probation in the initial appointment letter, there was a period of probation prescribed for the appellant .  In State Bank of India v. N. Sundara Money, Krishna Iyer J. speaking for a three judges bench, interpreted the expression `terminationfor any reason whatsoever' as under  Court held that striking off the name of a workman from the rolls by the management was retrenchment within the meaning of section 2(oo). Parliament stepped in and introduced section 25  This article is an open letter to the author of this article . The author of the article is happy to point out that the author has been unable to reach the site of the incident .  Sub-section (2) specifically comprehends a situation where a workman is not in continuous service for a period of one year or six months . In such a case he is deemed  Section 25B read as under: "For the purposes of ss. 25C and 25F a workman who during the period of 12 calendar months has actually worked in an industry for  Appeal allowed and the Award of the Labour Court dated May 31, 1980, is set aside . The respondent shall pay the costs of the appellant in this Court quantified at Rs. 2000 