 The petitioner was convicted for murder and sentenced to life imprisonment . The High Court dismissed the Writ Petition on the ground that the petitioner's representations to the Government and State Home Minister were pending consideration  The Court Repelled all the thrusts aimed at challenging the constitutional validity of section 433A of the Criminal Procedure Code . It is no body's contention that Parliament was not competent to amend  The duty to judge and to award appropriate punishment to the guilty is a judicial function which culminates by a judgment pronounced in accordance with law . After the judicial function ends the executive function of  Ashok Kumar alias Golu was tried and convicted for murder on December 20, 1978 in Sessions Case No. 32 of 1978 by the learned Sessions Judge, Ganganagar, and was  The writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on October 31, 1988, on the ground that it was premature inasmuch as the petitioner's two representations, one to the Governor and  The Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill XLII of 1972 was introduced in the Rajya Sabha on December 11, 1972 proposed wide ranging changes in the IPC . One change proposed  The Joint Parliamentary Committee presented its report to the Rajya Sabha on January 29, 1976 . It recommended substitution of the existing section 57, IPC, by a totally new section, the  Section 433A of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill, 1978 as passed by the Rajya Sabha and now pending in the Lok Sabha, section 302 is proposed to be amended  The Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha in the form in which the Rajya Sabha approved it . This is not a case of legislative incompetence to enact  No body's contention that Parliament was not competent to amend the Criminal Procedure Code by which section 433A was inserted . Whether or not the connecting Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Bill ought  The law governing suspension, remission and commutation of sentence is both statutory and constitutional . The stage for the exercise of this power generally speaking is post-judicial, i.e., after  Godse claimed that in view of section 57 read with section 53A, IPC, the total period of his incarceration could not exceed 20 years which he had completed, inclusive of remission  In Maru Ram's case the Constitution Bench reaffirmed the ratio of Godse's case and held that the nature of a life sentence is incarceration until death . Release would follow only upon  The Court directed that the period of detention undergone by the two accused as undertrial prisoners would be set off against the sentence of life imprisonment imposed upon them, subject to the provisions contained in  In Kehar Singh's case on the question of laying down guidelines for the exercise of power under Article 72 of the Constitution this Court observed in paragraph 16: "It seems to us that  The petition was in the nature of a representative petition touching the rights of a large number of convicts . The High Court of Rajasthan had refused to examine the merits of the various 