 The Peerless General Insurance and Investment Co. Ltd. was incorporated in 1932 . The company offers three schemes, the principal of which is the Endowment Certificate Scheme . Under this scheme,  The Reserve Bank of India gave certain directions called "Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) Direc- tions 1973 . The company was directed to transfer every year  Paragraph 5 of the Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 1977, made a radical departure from the earlier provision . For the first time, a ceiling was  Peerless Company sought exemption from restrictions relating to maximum period . Company suggested that the Reserve Bank might recommend to the Central Government to convert the undertaking into a joint-sector enterprise . West Bengal  The expression "Prize Chit" had nowhere been statutorily defined before . The Bhahatosh Datta Study Group and the Raj Study Group indentified the schemes popularly  In fact, no construction may be placed on the definition so as to bring in all Recurring of the definition . The context requires the definition to be read as if both clauses are satisfied  It is a matter of common knowledge that the return to a policyholder who survives the period of the policy is very poor . It may be true that the Life Insurance Corporation is paying higher  The only reason why the appeals are being dismissed is on the wording of Section 2(e) of the Act . A close study of the definition makes the conclusion inescapable that the  A Certificate which has not acquired surren- der value lapses on non-payment of instalments and the amounts paid become forfeit to the company . A person purchasing a Certificate automatically  An agent's commission is 30% of the first year's subscription and 5% 15 only of subsequent years' subscriptions . This offers an incentive to the agents to concentrate on securing fresh business  The 'Table No. 21 Policy' offered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India is not a life Insurance policy, as we generally know it, but it is a policy without profits .  Life Insurance Corporation of India, an instrumentality of the State, which is given the monopoly of Life Insurance business in the country has taken no steps to offer proper security and protection to the  It is a matter of common knowledge that the return is a policy-holder who survives the period of the policy is very poor . We are now told daily that the Life Insurance Corporation is  In 1970 the Banking Commission constituted a Study Group to review the role of various nonbanking financial intermediaries . The Study Group identified three classes of Chit Funds: (a) Simple  Study Group's view was that Chit Funds were not effi- cient as saving or lending institutions and that they en- couraged consumption spending and in some cases hoarding of  Paragraph 4(a) prescribed six months as minimum period for which a Miscellaneous Non-Banking Company could accept a deposit, but no maximum period was prescribed . Paragraph 13 enabled  In 1974, a Study Group headed by Dr. J .S. Raj was appointed by the Reserve Bank to examine the existing statu- tory provisions with a view to assessing their  The Raj Committee observed in the report that the Directions known as the Misellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank of India) Directions were applicable to companies conducting prize chit  Paragraph 5 of the 1977 Miscellaneous Non-Banking Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions made a radical departure from the 1973 directions . For the first time, a ceiling was fixed on  Section 2(e) defines 'prize chit' and is as follows: "Money circulation scheme" Section 3 bans prize chit and money circulation schemes and is in the following  An inspection of the Peerless Company's books by an inspection team appointed by the Reserve Bank of India . The team in its report pointed out various unhealthy features of the schemes managed by the  Peerless Company was banned from doing fresh business and was required to wind up its existing business under the Act . West Bengal Government pointed out that the Prize Chits/Money Circulation Sc  It is not a gambling scheme. There are no prizes, no gifts, no elements of chance. It is just a plain Recurring Deposit Scheme such as the many schemes floated by Com  The Banning Act sought to prevent the exploitation of the ignorant poor by the glare of publicity of fabulous prizes, the lure of big money for small . The Court identified the vice sought to  The Court was of the view that the [Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act] was designed to fight the baser human instinct of gambling  The expression 'Prize Chit' had nowhere been statutorily defined before . The Bhahatosh Datta Study Group and the Raj Study Group had identified schemes popularly called  The argument is that the two clauses (i) and (ii) are to be read disjunctively and that they should not be read as if they are joined by the conjunction  Section 8 provides for forfeiture of newspapers or other publications connected with any Prize Chits or Money Circulation Schemes . Section 8 is far too draconian to be applied to schemes which are 