 The sentence of death for an offence under S. 302 of the Indian Penal Code was challenged in appeal by special leave in this Court on the following grounds : (i) that the death  There is hardly any ground for a challenge under Art. 14 . The exercise of judicial discretion on well recognised principles is, in the final analysis, the safest possible safeguard for the accused .  Convicted under section 302-IPC for the murder of one Chhotey Singh and sentenced to death by the learned Sessions Judge, Shahjahanpur . Convicted for that  Mr Garg contended that the discretion invested in the Judges to impose capital punishment is not based on any standards or policy required by the Legislature for imposing capital punishment in preference to imprisonment for life .  Two Judges rejected capital punishment on the ground that it violated the Eighth Amendment which forbade "cruel and unusual punishments" The minority of four Judges (Burger, CJ, Blackmun  Two of his brothers concluded that the infliction of the death penalty is constitutionally impermissible in all circumstances under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments . Article 72(3) provides that the President  A large number of murders is undoubtedly of the common type . But some at least are diabolical in conception and cruel in exe-cution . Society is liable to be rocked  A Bill for the abolition of capital 552 punishment was introduced in the Lok Sabha in 1956 but the same was rejected on November 23, 1956 . A resolu- tion for the  The policy of our criminal law is to fix a maximum penalty- the same being intended for the worst cases, leaving a very wide discretion in the matter of punishment to the Judge . In  A wide discretion in the matter of fixing the degree of punishment should be allowed to the Judge . The authors of the Code had in many cases not heinous, fixed a minimum as well as  The policy of the law in giving a very wide discretion in the matter of punishment to the Judge has its origin in the impossibility of laying down standards . The maximum punishment prescribed for the offence  Mr. Justice Harlan delivered the opinion of five Judges . The majority held that "the infinite variety of cases and facets to each case would make general standards either meaning less 'boiler  There is hardly any ground for apprehending any capricious discrimination by judicial tribunals . The court is primarily concerned with all the facts and circumstances relevant to the crime and how it  All facts and circumstances are capable of being proved in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act . The trial does not come to an end until all the relevant facts are proved and the 