 Petitioner sought to quash appointment of President of Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal (CEGAT) CEGAT was 'mal-functioning' in  The rile on which decision regarding the appointment of President was made was produced in the Court but on behalf of the Union of India an objection was taken by the Additional Solicitor General  The claim for immunity should never he on administrative routine nor be a garb to avoid in convenience, embarrassment or adverse to its defence in the action, the latter themselves themselves a ground for  The power to issue 'discovery order nisi' is inherent as an integral power of judicial review and process in the Court to secure the attendance of any person or discovery or production of  The Court would be willing to respond to the executive public interest immunity to disclose certain documents where national security or high policy, high sensitivity is involved . But it would be going too far to  The PM is enjoined under Article 78 to communicate to the President all decisions of the Council of Minister relating to the administration of the affairs of the Union . Rule of law and judicial review  It is settled law that it is for the aggrieved person i.e. non-appointee to assail the legality of the offending action . Third party has not locus stand  An expert body like the Law Commission of India should make an in-depth study in this behalf including the desirability of bringing CEGAT under the control of Law and Justice Department  An appeal to a Bench of two Judges of the respective High Courts would assuage a growing feeling of iNjustice of those who can ill-afford to approach the Supreme Court  The time is ripe for taking stock of the working of the various Tribunals set up in the country after the insertion of Articles 323A and 323B in the Constitution . A sound  The Customs, Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal (for short 'the CEGAT) was without a President for the last over six months the functioning of the Tribunal was  Shri Harish Chandra was a Senior Vice-President when the question of' filling, up the vacancy of the President came up for consideration . He was fully qualified for the post under  Court cannot sit in judgment over the wisdom of the Central Government in the choice of the person to be appointed as a President so long as the person chosen possesses the prescribed qualification and is otherwise  AT' came into existence with Justice F.S. Gill as its President . After he retired in 1985 no Judge was appointed as President . In letter dated December 26, 1991, addressed  The remedy under Art. 32 of the Constitution is a fundamental right to enforce the guaranteed rights in Part 111\. This court shall have power to issue writ of habeas- corpus,  The claim for immunity should never be on administrative routine nor be a garb to avoid inconvenience, embarrassment or adverse to its defence in the action, the latter themselves a ground for disclosure .  The real question which the court is required to consider is whether public interest is so strong to override the ordinary right and interest of the litigant that he shall be able to lay before  The Administrative Procedure Act 5, Art 552 was made. Thereunder it was broadly conceded to permit access to official information. Only is stated hereinbefore the President is to withhold top secret  The disclosure would cause public injury preventing candid and frank discussion and expression of views by bureaucrats at higher level and by the Minister/Cabinet Sub-committee causing serious injury to public service  The President exercises his functions, except conferred on him to be exercised in his discretion, with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers as per the business rules allocated among his Ministers or  Patrick Gordon Walker in his 'The Cabinet' 1973 Revised Ed. at p. 178 stated that basically Cabinet is a constitutional mechanism to ensure that before important decisions are reached many sides of the  Cabinet discussions often depend upon confidential advice from civil servants or reports from Ambassadors . If those are disclosed and thus become subject to public attack, it would be extremely difficult for the cabinet 8  The Cabinet as a whole is responsible for the advice and conduct of each of its members . If any member of the Cabinet seriously dissents from the opinion and policy approved' by the majority  It is the Minister's "due discharge of duty" to state on oath in his affidavit the grounds on which and the reasons for which he has been persuaded to claim public interest immunity from  The oath of office of secrecy does not absolve the Minister either to state the reasons in support of the public interest immunity to produce the state documents or as to how the matter was dealt  Lord Keith in Burnnah Oil's case considered that it would be going too far to lay down a total protection to cabinet minutes . Lord Scarman also objected total immunity to Cabinet documents on  President of United States was also named as an unindicted coconspirator . Special prosecutor issued a third party subpoena duces tecum directing the President to produce at the trial certain  In the interest of national security Lord Denning, M.R. did not permit disclosure of the information furnished by the security service to the Home Secretary holding it highly confidence . The public  Cabinet minutes and minutes of discussion are a class. They might in very special circumstances be examined . Public interest in maintaining Cabinet secrecy easily outweighs the contrary public interest in ensuring that the defendant  It would be difficult to have equanimity if the inner working of the Govt. machinery is needlessly exposed to the public . It would hamper the expression of frank and forth  In The Queen v. Toohey, the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act, 1978 provides appointment of an Administrator to exercise and perform the functions conferred under the Act . The Town  The President exercises his power with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head under Art. 74 (1) They exercise the power not as his delegates  It is the constitutional, legitimate and lawful power and duty of this court to ensure that powers constitutional statutory or executive are exercised in accordance with the constitution and the law . Decided cases on  Court will not sit in appeal over order and will not substitute its own opinion to that of the president by weighing the evidence placed before the president . Teh immunity must not be claimed on  The President of CEGAT is the controlling authority as well as Presiding authority of the tribunals constituted at different places . Harish Chander being the senior Vice President, his  GEGAT is a judicial body and functions as court within the limits of its jurisdiction . The power of judicial review is an integral part of our constitutional system and without it, there will  CAT claimed parity of pay and superannuation as is available to the Judges of the High Court . This court held that they are not on par with the judges but a separate mechanism created  In Rajendra Singh Yadav & Ors v. State of U.P. Service Tribunal, this court 858 emphasised its need for the State of Uttar Pradesh to change it  The CEGAT is a creature of the statute yet intended to have all the flavour of judicial dispensation by independent members and President . Sri Justice Y.V. Chandrachud  Sri Harish Chander was not a District Judge for 10 years in State Higher Judicial Service . Therefore, this Court declared that he was not qualified to be appointed as a judge of the 