 The [Sea Customs Act 1878] contained a number of prohibitions on imports by land or sea and by s. 19 authorised the imposition of further restrictions on import or export by sea or  An import of gold by air without the permission of the Reserve Bank was a breach of the notification and the breach attracted to it the provisions of s 167(81) of the [Sea  The six appellants are A-8, Mohamed Hussain Omer Kochra alias Mr. Buick alias Nazen, Maganlal Naranji Patel, A-16,  A-6 Lakshmandas is a financier. A-19 Hamad Sultan and A-37 Chunilal alias Professor Kamal alias Dwarkadas of Bombay were concerned  Gold would be sent by air from foreign countries to Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and other air ports and smuggled gold would be sold in India . A--6 Lakshmandas,  Since October 1958 eleven consignments of gold were sent to Bombay . On February 1, 1959 the Rani of Jhansi carrying the 11th consignment of gold was searched  An import of gold by air without the permission of the Reserve Bank was a breach of the notification, and the breach attracted to provisions of S. 167(81) of the [Sea  A fraudulent evasion of duty became punishable under S.167(81) of the [Sea Customs Act, 1878]. We do not think it necessary to express any opinion on these questions  The main argument was that the despatch of gold from Geneva was the result of one conspiracy and another separate and unrelated conspiracy . The settlement of account between Yusuf and Pedro at Beirut did  Defence did not produce any letter from Pedro or any other material indicating that he was willing to be examined on commission . The Court could not issue a roving commission to a court or authority  Document purports to have been signed by Ismail Kader, a domestic servant of Kochra's mother . Kochra registered "Nazneen" because he desired to join the conspiracy  Kochra received the two telephone messages from Ali relating to matters connected with the gold smuggling . Kochra allowed the use of Nazneen for receipt of cables from Pedro and acceptance of cables  Maganlal Naranji Patel must be acquitted of all the charges against him .  Prosecution relied entirely on evidence of Maxie Miranda and other accomplices for the purpose of implicating Mukherlee . Mukherjee applied for leave from January 19 to February 2,  The High Court 'find that the High Court rightly convicted Kanel of the charges against him' The courts below accepted the testimony of Yusuf Merchant implicating Lakshmandas in the conspiracy  The courts below passed on them sentences of rigorous imprisonment on the charge of conspiracy and on the individual charges for which they were convicted . They directed that the sentences on all the charges except the 