 Constitution of India 1950, Articles 15 and 16- Admission to post-graduate course in medicine-Rule of Delhi University-Reservation of 70 per cent of seats at post graduate level for  Petitioner directed to be admitted to the degree course this year, if the rules of attendance etc., do not stand in the way and the Medical Council makes an exception by agreeing to add  It is difficult to denounce or renounce the merit criterion where selection is for post-graduate or post- doctoral courses in specialised subjects . Reservation for Delhi graduates is not that inv  Dr. Ramesh was turned down because of a rule reserving 70% of the seats, at the post- graduate level, to Delhi graduates . The rule was made in April  The University of Delhi (we may use the shorthand form 'Delhi University' hereafter) refutes this challenge and justifies the reservation in the concrete educational plight of Delhi graduates as an inevitable  The key to this case is in harmoniously blending developmental necessities of backward regions via institutional reservations- and national considerations of everybody's equal opportunity for higher education being ensured regardless of geographical, institutional  Delhi University has many post-graduate degrees and diploma courses but all of them put together come to only 250 seats . Graduates from Delhi University cannot be accommodated fully or even in part  The Indian Constitution is wedded to equal protection and non-discrimination . Arts.14, 15 and 16 are inviolable and Art. 29(2) strikes a similar note .  Delhi University students, as such, are not an educationally backward class . University-based reservation cannot be built on the vague ground that all other universities are practising it . Universality  What is directly intended to abolish existing disparity cannot be accused of discrimination . Such measures which make for equality of opportunity for medical education and medical service for backward human sectors may be constitutionalised even  All selection for post-graduate studies should be conducted by the Universities. Backward regions and universities in consequence are miles away from forward cities with sophisticated institutions. The former, for a equal  The object of the rules for admission can obviously 849 be to secure a fair and equitable distribution of seats amongst those seeking admission and who are eligible under the University Regulations . The principle underlying  Mathew J. in Thomas's case (supra) quoted from the Moynihan Report and continued with some insightful comments which we may excerpt . The demand for equality of opportunity has  Delhi graduates are denied de facto equality on a national scale by the exclusionism of other universities . The argument urged in answer is that the doors for admission to post-graduate medical courses are  A candidate who gets more marks than another is entitled to preference for admission . The role of high grade skill or special talent may be less at the lesser levels of education, jobs and disciplines  Delhi and the Delhi University are the cynosure of the privileged species in a land of under-privilegd penury . But it is difficult to denounce or renounce the merit criterion  The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and Chandigarh and the Pondicherry Medical College have a much smaller fraction . The Indian Medical Council makes an exception by agreeing to  The I.M.A. cannot be a silent spectator or a static instrument but must initiate, activist fashion, steps to make Indian medical education a meaning asset to the nation's healing  Petition dismissed by N.V.K. V.N. K. Vijarathi . Petition dismissed . 