 Executive action challenged on grounds of violations of Art. 14, l9(1)(a) & (g) by writ petition . Maintainability of - Issues pertaining to civil rights  Central Government had in the year 1949 demarcated the press area along the Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi . It consisted of plots Nos1 to 10 known as  The matter was processed in the Ministry of Works and Housing at various levels . The Vice-Chairman of Delhi Development authority took the following decision (a) to amalgamate plots Nos.  The proposed action of re-entry by the lessor i.e. the Union of India Ministry of works & Housing at the instance of the Lt. Governor of Delhi is an act  The Express Building at 9-10 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg forms the nerve-centre of the Express Group of Newspapers as the editorials and the leading articles of  No particular building is equally fit for the running of the press and the person desiring to run a press or already running the press is at liberty to acquire another suitable building for that purpose  On behalf of respondent No.2, the Lt.Governor of Delhi, it was argued: (1) That the Administrator appointed by the President under Art.239(1),  The perpetual lease-deed dated March 18, 1958 governs the relationship effectively between the Union of India and the Lt. Governor on the one hand and the petitioners on the other i  The construction of the new Express Building on the residual portion of 2740 square yards on the western side of plots no 8. 9 and 10, Bahadurshah Zafar  The impugned notices of re-entry upon forfeiture of lease ant of the threatened demolition of the Express Buildings are intended and meant to silence the voice of the Indian Express . It must  The Express Buildings constricted by Express- Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. with the sanction of the lessor i.e. the Union of India, Ministry of Works & Housing .  From November l, 1956 Part 'C' States ceased to exist by virtue of the Seventh Amendment . In their place Union Territories were substituted in the First Schedule to the Constitution, including the  In terms of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, all matters relating to the property of the Union, allotment of Government lands in Delhi, administration of  Lt. Governor's initiative to call for files from the Municipal Corporation relating to the construction of the new Express Building was an action of his own not provoked by anyone, much less at the  The contention that the FAR of no commercial area in Delhi can exceed 400 is misconceived . The Master Plan in express terms permits FAR of commercial areas in Minto Road and Ranjit Singh  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. was granted permission for the construction of the Express Building with an increased FAR of 360 with a double basement for Installation of the printing press . The  Estoppel is often described as a rule of evidence, but more correctly it is a principle of law . The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. are liable to pay conversion charges  The Lt. Governor failed to make a distinction between the power with respect to the subject 'Property of the Union and the revenue therefrom' and the general powers of administration entrusted to him  Petitioners challenge the constitutional validity of a notice of re-entry upon forfeiture of lease issued by the Engineer Officer, Land & Development Office, New Delhi . They also challenge the validity of  The impugned notices constitute an act of personal vendetta against Express Group of Newspapers in general, and Ram Nath Goenka, chairman of the Board of Directors in particular,  The government had been receiving complaints that additional space was sanctioned to the Indian Express Buildings in total disregard of the provisions of the Master Plan, zonal regulations and Municipal Corporation bye-laws .  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. had started the construction of additional block on the land to be kept open without taking permission from the lessor under the terms of lease . The  The Indian Express was allotted plots nos. 9 and 10, Bahadurshah Zafar Marg in terms of the intended lease entered into between the parties on November 17, 1952  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. was first allotted plots no.1 and 2 but later accepted instead plots nos. 9 and 10 for construction of the Gandhi Memorial Hall known as  The petitioners were charge premium at two different rates of the leasehold premises . The premium charged was at Rs.36,000 per acre for the area west to the sewer line .  At the time of construction of buildings in the press area, there were no restrictions as to the FAR permissible along with Bahadurshah Zafar Marg, also known as the  The Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply is specified in the First Schedule at serial no.19. Under Art. 299(1) of the constitution, the President issued a notification No  Delhi Development Act overrides Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 . Central Government approved the Master Plan for Delhi, prepared by the Delhi Development Authority under s.7 of the Delhi development Act .  Express Newspapers Pvt.Ltd. requested permission to construct on the open space admeasuring 429 2740 sq.yards on the western side of plots nos. 9 and 10  Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. had already used up an FAR of 260 with reference to their leasehold premises i.e. plot nos. 9 and 10 although they had occupied  An order allowing the petitioners to build upto an FAR of 360 had already been passed and further construction beyond it would be sanctioned later . The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd.  On October 21, 1978, M.N. Buch, Vice-Chairman, Delhi Development Authority took the following decisions : Taking into account the existing built-up area would permit on  The Union of India, Ministry of Works & Housing at the instance of the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi is meant to be an act of political vendetta . The impugned notices have been  At the time of the grant of plots nos. 9 and 10 to the Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd., there were no restrictions as to the construction of buildings along the Bahad  There was no notification issued by the President under Art.239(1) of the Constitution for the conferral of any power on the Lieutenant- Governor to administer the lease in question .  Petitioners had no right under the lease to change the character of this land which was to be maintained and by suppression of material facts obtained permission to build thereon sanction of building plans from  It was alleged that the petitioners indulged in all sorts of Distortions and fabrications in criticizing the policies and actions of the Union of India and the Lt. Governor"  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. had no power under the perpetual lease-deed of 1958 to vary or waive the conditions of the lease . It is the Land & Development  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. applied to the Ministry of Works & Housing for permission to build on plots nos. 9 and 10 . The petitioners have placed letters dated June  The Express Newspapers Pvt.Ltd. built a new Express building on 2740 sq. yards to the west of the pipe-line . Case has seen many twists and turns  The Union of India engaged Shri Sinha as its counsel and he continued to represent respondent no.1 . Strangely enough, Dr. Singhvi continued to appear not only for respondent  Petitioners say orders passed by Shri Sikandar Bakht, the then Minister for Works & Housing were clearly illegal, improper and irregular . The powers and functions assigned to the Chief  M.N. Buch avers: "Under clause 2(5) of the perpetual lease-deed only the lessor or the Chief Commissioner of Delhi could permit construction on the  M.N. Buch contended that he had no access to the records of the Delhi Development Authority and due to non-availability of the records, it was difficult for him to say anything  The Master Plan does not refer to the Mathura Road commercial area nor does such area fall within the expression 'already built-up commercial area' Whether under the Master Plan, development  Whether the notice of re-entry upon forfeiture of lease issued by the Engineer Officer, Land & Development Office, New Delhi dated March 10, 1980 purporting to be on behalf of the  The word 'building' is defined in section 2(b) as including any structure intended to be used for residential, industrial, commercial or other purposes, whether in actual use or not  The contention that petitions are not maintainable under the Writ of the Constitution leaves me cold . Some of the crucial petitions under the Constitution leave me cold cold .  Questions arise: Whether the impugned notice of re-entry upon forfeiture of lease dated March 10, 1980 issued by the Engineer Officer, Land & Development Office under cl.5 of  Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. had started unauthorized construction of excess basement beyond sanction and construction of upper basement without sanction . The building plans were not submitted for sanction of the lessor  Officer nowhere suggests that the construction of the said building with an increased FAR of 360 was in breach of the Master Plan or the Zonal Development Plan for D-II area framed under the  He was critical of the dectum of Bhagwati, J. in International Airport Authority's case that "arbitrariness was the anti thesis of Art. 14"  The right to run a press may be a fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(a) but the right to use a particular building for running a press is altogether another thing  The Express Newspapers' case and also the case of Sakal Papers were cited with approval by the Court in Bennett Coleman. The principle is too well- settled to need any more elabor  It is the effect of the law and the action upon the right which attracts the jurisdiction of the court to grant relief . The direct operation of the Act upon the rights forms the real test  The Union of India acting through the Land & Development Officer (L&DO) was entitled to serve a notice under 479 c1.5 for re-entry upon forfeiture of lease  Court quashed the orders and issued a writ of mandamus directing restoration of possession of the land . The Court felt it our duty to say that this case is by the executive felt its  The Court also adverted to the earlier decision in Wazir Chand v. State of H.P., [[1954] INSC 50; [[1955] 1 S.  The decision in Ramchandra Dev's case appears to be in per incuriamiamiam . No reference to the earlier decision of the Constitution Bench in Bishan Das' case nor  The constitutional position of the Lieutenant Governor is whether the Lieutenant-Governor is the successor of the Chief Commissioner of Delhi . The Lt. Governor cannot usurp the functions of the lease i  It was submitted that this constitutional pattern was designed on the basis of the 'transferred powers' in respect of which the Legislative Assembly of Delhi or the Delhi Metropolitan Council were given certain defined  The office of Land & Development Officer came into being as a separate organisation under the administrative control of the Chief Commissioner of Delhi . Delhi remained and was administered as a Chief Commissioner's Province .  Under the Constitution of India, Delhi became a Part 'C' State w.e.f. January 26, 1950 . Art.239(1? of the Constitution as it then  Art 239(1) of the Constitution was amended by the Constitution (7th Amendment) Act, 1956 w.e.f. November 1, 1956 . Art 246(4)  On October 1, 1959 decision was taken by the Government of India to transfer the administrative control of the office of Land & Development Officer, New Delhi from the Delhi Administration to Ministry of Works  Chief Commissioner of Delhi continued to be the Administrator of the Union Territory of Delhi under Art.239(1) after November 1, 1956 when the Government of Part States Act, 1951 was  The Lt. Governor was not a 'stranger', 'interloper', 'intruder' or 'usurper' as alleged and argued 499 strenuously by the petition  Delhi was a Chief Commissioner's Province under 8.94(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935 and had to be administered by the President under Art.239(1)  There was no Order in Council issued by the Governor-General under Art. 94(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935 nor any order issued by . the President under Art  The principal point in controversy is whether the notice of re-entry upon forfeiture of lease issued by the Engineer Officer, Land & Development Office dated March 10, 1980 purporting to be on  There is nothing before us from which we can say that the allegations in paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of the petition made by the petitioners are not well- founded . Mala f  There is a distinction between exercise of power in good faith and misuse in bad faith . The former arises when an authority misuses its power in breach of law by taking into account extraneous  Petitioners alleged several facts imputing improper motives which have not been specifically denied and there is only a bare denial with the assertion that the facts are not relevant . Mere denial of allegations  The learned counsel contends that the so-called inquiry directed by respondent no.2 into the affairs of the Union of India, Ministry of Works & Housing was nothing short of inquisition into  The Express Group of Newspapers in general and the Indian Express in particular have always taken in independent stand and have been critical of the Government and the authorities . The allegations in the Writ Pet  The Indian Express had been cool to Government pressure to publicize the benefits of Emergency . The Government then arrested Kuldip Nayar, the Editor-in-Chief, dissolved the Board  A note on the file pointed out that the rate at which the plot was initially given to the Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. was concessional @ Rs. 36,000 per  The Lt. Governor was the alter ego of the President in relation to such territory which he is called upon to administer on behalf of the . President . He reiterated that the . Lt.  M.KMukherjee, Secretary, Ministry of Works & Housing in his supplementary affidavit avers that the impugned notice dated March 10, 1980 was issued by the Engineer  Mathura Road Commercial Complex is not a 'development area' within the meaning of s.2(3)(3) of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 . Master Plan does not prescribe  Commercial areas of Connaught Place Extension, Minto Road and Ranjit Singh Road are in zone D- IT . The Union of India as well as the other respondents as presented before us  The Master Plan does not prescribe any FAR for the press enclave situate on Mathura Road commercial area . The Zonal Development Plan for the D-II area approved by the Central Government  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. have placed on record a recent advertisement dated March 8, 1982 issued by the Delhi Development Authority as published in the Indian Express announcing public auction of  Union of India says that the permission accorded by Sikander Bakht, the then Minister for Works & Housing was non-est if the FAR exceeded the legal limit of FAR 300 .  The height of the new Express Building is about 47 feet (see section plan of the sanction plan: 1"= 8 ft.), the adjacent portion which is the service road is on level  The contention put forward by learned counsel for respondent NO. 1 is that there are two important factors governing construction of buildings . Normally, for all commercial buildings, the ground floor coverage is 25  An area of 2740 square yards to the west of the drain had to be left as a residual piece of land out of the total area of 5703 sq. yards . An area  Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. had built a new Express Building with an increased FAR of 360 with a double basement for installation of the printing press . Petitioners say the new Express  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. were asked to show cause within three days from the date of issue of the notice as to why an order of demolition should not be passed under  It was pointed out that the tank as recommended by the Chief Fire Officer by his letter dated January 5, 1979 was for the construction of an underground water storage tank over the area of 550  All modern printing presses require a slab or a working platform where the printing paper is received and from which the machine can be served . The working platform is a necessary appurtenance which is  A working platform exists not only in the old Indian Express building but also in the Times of India and the National Herald buildings, amongst others, in the press Enclave . Delhi Municipal Corporation  Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. constructed the new Express Building with an increased FAR of 360 and a double basement in conformity with the permission granted by the lessor i.e.  Denning evoked two doctrines: assurances intended to be acted upon and in fact acted upon; were binding; and that where a Government department wrongfully assumes authority, the citizen is entitled  The doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be invoked for preventing the Government from discharging its functions under the law . It is also not applicable when the officer and the Government act  The Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. are liable to pay conversion charges in terms of cl. 2(7) of the lease-deed but how much is the amount and  Nariman says Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd. are prepared to pay whatever amount that this Court may teem fit as and by way of commercial charges in order to avoid another round  The Land Development Officer has also "without prejudice" worked out the conversation charges as indicated in the following chart : According to the learned counsel a rough estimate of the charges payable by the Express  The notice issued by the Engineer Officer, Land & Development Office dated March 10, 1980 purporting to act on behalf of the Government of India, Ministry of Works & Housing was quashed  Mere nearness to the seat of the Central Government does not clothe the Lt. Governor with any power in respect of the property . He can discharge only those powers entrusted to him  The right to the land and to construct buildings thereon for running a business is not derived from Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution but springs from terms of contract between the  It is incorrect as stated at pages 90-91 of the judgment that the Learned Counsel for the Union of India conceded that the Impugned Notice was invalid and had no legal effect."  L.N. Sinha, learned counsel for respondent no. 1, 562 Union of India 18 taken from our minute-books in which we noted the arguments of counsel almost ver  His conduct in casting serious aspersions on the Court by suggesting that the delay in the pronouncement of the judgment was responsible for 'facts stated and submissions made on behalf of the respondent 