 Anand, A.S. Anand and his brother were tried for offences under Section 420 IPC read with Section 4 [Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961]. The trial Court  It is alleged that as per the terms settled between the parties, P.W.1 agreed to give to his daughter (1) house at Hyderabad (2) jewels, cash  P.P.Rao the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the courts below had committed an error in not correctly interpreting the ambit and scope of section 4 of the  The Parliament to enact The Dowry Prohibition Act in 1961 . The Act is intended to prohibit the giving or taking of dowry end makes its `demand' also an offence under Section 4  The courts must look to the object which the statute seeks to achieve while interpreting any of the provisions of the Act . The expression 'dowry' under the Act must be interpreted in  An argument was raised by Mr Rao regarding the use of the expressions 'bridegroom' and 'dowryry' in Section 4 of the Act to urge that "demand  A wider social movement not only of educating women of their rights but all of the men folk to respect and recognise the basic human values is essentially needed to bury this pernicious social evil  The High Court considered the evidence on the record and observed: "From the evidence of the 2nd petitioner that initially demanded the dowry in connection with the marriage of his younger brother,  Shri Narsingh Rao is stated to have been present at that time, but he has not been examined at the trial . The above admission creates a lot of doubt about the  The letter which PW1 claims to have himself received from the appellant regarding cancellation of marriage prior to 'varapuja' ceremony has not been produced . Reliance instead has been placed  It is unsafe to treat expert handwriting opinion as sufficient basis for conviction, but it may be relied upon when supported by other items of internal and external evidence . The courts below appear to have  The conviction and sentence of the appellant is hereby set aside . The appeal, thus,succeeds and is allowed. The appellant is on bail. His bail bonds shall stand discharged 