 1977 (3) SCR 261; 1977 SCC 99 (17 March 1977) BHAGWATI, P.N.GUPTA, A.C.C  Section 14(1) covers every kind of acquisition of property by a female Hindu including acquisition in lieu of maintenance . The widow would be getting the property in virtue of her pre-existing  The High Court was in error in holding that the appel- lant would have only a limited interest . The compromise by which the properties were allotted to her in lieu of her maintenance  The right to maintenance is a pre-existing right which existed in the Hindu law long before the passing of the Act of 1937 or 1946 . The Court of Words v Badri Pershad  A Hindu female's right to maintenance is not an empty formality or an illusory claim but is a tangible right against property . The husband has a personal obligation to maintain his wife  The appellant had taken only a life interest in the properties and there was a clear restriction prohibiting her from alienating the properties . She continued to be in posses- sion of the  The judgment was delivered by Bhagwati, J.S. Murtaza Fazal Ali and Gupta, JJ . The facts giving rise to the appeal are set out clearly  The Hindu Succession Act, 1956, is a codifying enactment and has made far-reaching changes in the structure of the Hindu law of inheritance, and succession . Sub-section (  Sub-section (1) of section 14 covers all cases of property owned by a female Hindu al- though she may not be in actual, physical or constructive possession of the property .  Sub-section (2) of section 14 must be confined to cases where property is ac- quired by a female Hindu for the first time as a grant without any pre-existing  Subhrai Bai died in 1957 subse- quent to the coming into force of the Hindu Succession Act after making a will bequeathing the property in favour of her  It is settled law that a widow is entitled to maintenance out of her deceased husband's estate . The Sastric Hindu Law a widow has a right to be maintained out of joint family  An appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh dated November 22, 1967 . The High Court ruled that sub-section (1) of section 14 of  On October 11, 1944 the appellant Tulasamma filed a petition for maintenance in forma pauperis against the respondent in the Court of the District Munsif, N  The appeal has been argued only on the substantial questions of law which turn upon the interpretation of sub-ss. (1) & (2) of s. 14 276 of the Hindu  To a Hindu wife her husband is her God and her life becomes one of selfless service and unstinted devotion to her husband . The claim of a Hindu widow to be main-  The Hindu Law enjoins that the wife must get an equal share with the sons, thus reinforcing the important character of the right of maintenance which a Hindu wife or widow possesses under the  Under the Mitakshara law the daughter-in-law does, with her husband, acquire a right to the ancestral property, but she becomes her husband's co-owner in  The Hindu law is so jealous in guarding the interests of Hindu women that the obligation for maintaining the Hindu women falls even on the King when he takes the estate by escheat or by forfeiture  West J., in Lakshman Ramchandra Joshi and Anr's case (supra) was fully approved by the Judicial Committee in Mst. Dan Kuer v. Sar  The courts in India have taken the view that where a widow is in possession of a specific proper- ty for the purpose of her maintenance a pur- chaser buying with notice of her  A Hindu woman's right to maintenance is a personal obligation so far as the husband is' concerned, and it is his duty to maintain her even if he has no property . If the  The Hindu Succes- sion Act, 1956 was, undoubtedly a piece of social legislation which fulfilled a long felt need of the nation and was widely acclaimed by the entire people .  The 1956 Act was a codifying enactment which had made far-reaching changes in the structure of the Hindu society and the object was to sweep away traditional limitations placed on the rights of the  In Mangal Singh v. Smt. Ratno, a widow came into posses- sion of her husband's property in 1917 and continued to be in possession of the same  Hukam Singh died in 1952 leaving behind his widow Krishna Devi . Krishna Devi sold half share of the house belonging to the joint family . This sale was challenged by the other members of  Court held that although the award had given a restricted estate, but this was only a narration of the state of law as it existed when the award was made . As the widow, however  Subhrai Bai was entitled to a share in her husband's properties then the suit properties must be held to have been allotted to her in accordance with law . As the law then stood  The claim of a Hindu female for maintenance is undoubtedly a pre-existing right . It seems to us, and it has been held as discussed above, that the claim or the right to  The Parliament thought that there was no warrant for making any distinction between a male or a female in this regard and both were, therefore, sought to be equated . We cannot overlook the  Hira Bai daughter-in-law of Devgonda (widow of his son Appa, who also died soon thereafter) came into possession of the proper- ties of Dev  The Court dissented from the contrary view taken by the Orissa and Madras High Courts on this question . The claim for maintenance can, however, be made a charge on the joint  The High Court of Patna appears to have taken the same view, and in our opinion very correctly . We are of the opinion, for the reasons that we have already given above,  A single Judge of the Madras High Court held that the case was clearly covered by the Explanation to s. 14(1) of the Act and the properties given to the widow  An earlier decision of the Patna High Court in Shiva Pujan Rat and Others v Jamuna Missir and Others(1) the High Court seems to rally round the view taken by  Madras High Court appears to have fallen into an error by misconceiving the scope and extent of a widow's right to maintenance . The claim of a Hindu woman for mainte-  Fazal Ali, J., J., said the Hindu Succession Act would apply only where a new right is created for the first time by virtue of a gift, will etc.  High Courts of Bombay, Andhra Pradesh, Patna, Mysore, Punjab, Calcutta .and Kerala have taken a contrary view of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court  The Act of 1937 did not introduce any new right but merely gave a statutory recognition to the old Sastric Hindu Law on the subject . The Court of 1937 is very different from the  Fazal Ali, J., J. was a party in the case of Smt. Ramo Devi & others . He ruled that a share in the house of her husband was  Sub-section (2) of s. 14 applies to instruments, decrees, awards, gifts etc. which create independent and new titles in favour of the females for the first time  Appeal allowed, the judgment and decree of the High Court are set aside . The judgment of the District Judge, Nellore is hereby restored and the plaintiffs' suit is dismissed . 