 The Delhi Administration superseded the New Delhi Municipal Committee on the ground that it had made persistent default in the performance of the duties imposed on it under the law and had abused its powers resulting  Everything that affects a citizen in his civil life, inflicts a civil consequence . The authority acting under section 238(1) is the master of its own procedure . Minimal natural justice  The principles of natural justice know of no exclusionary rule dependant on whether it would have made any difference if natural justice had been observed . The authority competent to take action under section 238  The Lt. Governor appointed nine non-official members and four ex-officio members to the New Delhi Municipal Committee to hold office for a year with effect from October 4, 1979 .  The Punjab Municipal Act provides that there shall be established for each Municipality a Committee having authority over the Municipality consisting of such number of members as the State Government may fix in that behalf  The old distinction between a judicial act and an administrative act has withered away and we have been liberated from the psittacine incantation of 'administrative action' The old  The Council of Jaffna was by statute a public corporation entrusted like all other municipal councils with the administration of a large area and the discharge of important duties . No Minister should have the  Durayappah v. W. J. Fernando & Ors. (Supra) We have already referred to some of the relevant provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act to indicate some  It appears that the work of construction of New Delhi City Centre was initially awarded to Mohinder Singh & Co. in October, 1976 . On account of their inability to complete the work within  High Court finds it impossible to hold that the New Delhi Municipal Committee was ever put on notice of any proposed action by the Delhi Administration in regard to first of the allegations made in the imp  Shri Sharma was however, appointed as Director (Horticulture) by the New Delhi Municipal Committee inspite of the directive . Delhi Administration objected to the irregular appointments made by the Municipal  The minimal requirement under section 77(2) is a notice informing the opponent about the application and affording him an opportunity to make his representation against whatever has been alleged in his petition .  The distinction between justice being done and being seen to be done has been emphasised in many cases . Jackson's Natural Justice (1980 Edn.) contains a very interesting discussion of the subject  The term of the Committee is due to expire on October 3, 1980 which means that just a few days more are left for the term to run out . The appellant is entitled to his 