 The Assistant Registrar of Co-operative Societies was a court within the meaning of the [Contempt of Courts Act, 1952, s. 3] The appellant had been rightly convicted of  The appeal was directed against the judgment and order of the Patna High Court in Original Criminal Misc. No. 6 of 1964 . It was alleged that the appellant entrusted to one Suraj  The appellant challenged his liability for the amount of Rs. 5,014-5-9 as determined in appeal by the State Government by a Writ Petition to the High Court of Patna  The Act was enacted to facilitate the formation, working and consolidation of co-operative societies for the promotion of thrift, self-help and mutual aid among agriculturists and other  The Assistant Registrar concerned was given the power of the Registrar under various sections of the Act including s. 48 [excepting sub-ss (6) and (8) by the State  Registrar is to all intents and purposes a court discharging the same functions and ,duties in the same manner as a court of law is expected to do . He is given the  Brainandan Sinha's case was heard in Cooper v. Wilson (1) and referred to in Brainandan . Sinha case . Case arose out of audit proceedings of the bank .  Bombay High Court in Malabar Hill Co- operative Housing Society v. K. L. Gauba (1) A.I.R.R., 1964 Bom 147 at 152  An award would not be equated with a judgement or a decision given by a Court . The learned Judges relied strongly on the fact that the Registrar had power to withdraw the dispute from his  Contempt of Courts Act, 1952, states that every High Court has the same jurisdiction, powers and authority in respect of contempts of courts subordinate to it as it has and exercises in  The Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes acting as persona designate under the Bombay Municipal Act was a court subordinate to the High Court for the purpose of ss. 2 and 3 of the  Article is only intended to confer jurisdiction and power on the High Court to withdraw a case for the purpose mentioned above from the ordinary courts of law . Art. 227 is of wider ambit  The second point also fails and the appeal is dismissed . Our decision is expressly limited to the Registrar and the Assistant Registrar . 