 In 1987, the Supreme Court heard a plea in Calcutta, a Zoological garden located in Alipore, now almost the heart of the city . The plea in the Supreme  In May, 1980, the Taj Group of Hotels came forward with a suggestion that they would be able to construct a Five Star Hotel . Taj Group wrote to the Government of West Bengal  West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking was asked to examine the proposals and advise the Govern- ment . Taj Group of Hotels proposed to lease four acres of Begumbari land for construction  Five petitioners--a Trade Unionist, two life members of the Zoo, two other bonafide residents of Greater Calcutta, all lovers of wild life--filed a  Court is not to shrug its shoulders and say that priorities are a matter of policy and so it is matter for the policy making authority . The least that the court may do is to examine  It is wrong to think that every thing not mentioned in the Cabinet Memoranda did not receive consideration by the government . The process of choosing and allotting the land to the Taj Group of  Begumbari land was government land transferred to the charge of the Zoological Garden Committee in 1880 in accordance with the conditions and terms agreed to by the Committee in their letter dated 23.  The decision taken by the All-India Tourism Council was an open decision well-known to everyone in the hotel business . No one except the I.T.D.C. and  Public Interest Litigation has now come to stay, says Supreme Court . Public spirited litigants rush to courts to file cases in profusion under attractive name Public Inter- est Litigation  In 1854, 'the wise Indian Chief of Seattle' replied to the offer of 'the great White Chief in Washington' to buy their land . "Every part of the earth is  Native Indians offer to sell their land to the white man, but must remember the air is precious to them . They say they will consider the offer if they accept it if they sell their  Industrialisation, urbanisation, explosion of population, overexploitation of resources, depletion of traditional sources of energy and raw materials are factors which have contributed to environmental deterioration . West  In May 1980 Taj Group of Hotels came forward with a suggestion that they would be able to construct a Five Star Hotel if any of three properties on Chowringhee, specified by them  Cabinet approval sought for the offers to be made to the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group . Cabinet approval was sought for a suitable Committee to undertake negotiations with the  On June 9, 1981, the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre- tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of  Four acres of Begumbari land is proposed to be taken for hotel construction . Taj Group suggested further modifications . Cabinet took the final decision to grant a ninety-nine years lease of the  The Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui- sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing them to give possession of the land to the  Late Smt. Indira Gandhi wrote to Shri Jyothi Basu, Chief Minister of West Bengal expressing the hope that he would not allow the Calcutta Zoo to  The decision was taken without considering the impact on the Zoo and without consulting various interested authorities and institutions . The Government was not focussed on these questions as evident from the fact that the Cabinet  The decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels was taken on February 12, 1981 . The Government was anxious that more Five-Star Hotels should be  The prominent use to which the land was evidently put at the time was as a dumping ground for refuse and rubbish and for growing fodder for elephants . The Government was not unmindful of  The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land was given  Four acres of Begumbari land was not used for the main purpose of the zoo and was not in fact part of the main Zoological Garden . The Government had already in mind a  The four-acre plot was not within the main Zoological Garden, but was separated from it by the Belvedere Road . It was about 700 feet from the main part of the  Experts Com- mittee of Wild Life Fund was proceeding on the fundamen- tal wrong assumption that hotel was proposed to be constructed "within the premises of Alipore Zoo" The  The Bengal Public Parks Act, 1904 vested the Begumbari land in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that what had become statutorily vested in the Committee could not be  Section 4 enables the Government to make rules for the management, and preservation of any park, and for regulating the use thereof by the public . The Act has nothing whatever to do with the  The appellants invited our attention to paragraphs 165, 166 and 167 of the Land Management Manual and urged that the rules laid down by the provisions have been ignored by the Government of West Bengal  Direct negotiation with those who had come forward with proposals to construct Five Star Hotels was the most reasonable and rational way of proceeding in the matter rather than invit- ing tenders or  State has stopped selling resin to outsiders and decided to allot it only to industries set up within the State . The object of the State in such a case is not to earn revenue from sale  A welfare State as the owner of the public property has no such freedom while disposing of public property . The 'nett sales' method appears to be a fairly well known method adopted  The judgments of the learned single judge and the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court are affirmed and the appeal is dismissed . The financial interests of the State were in no way sac  The Division Bench dismissed the appeal of India Hotel Co. Ltd. in its Judgment . The decision taken was neither unreasonable nor arbitrary and that taking away of four acres of land from the Zoo  Public interest litigation has now come to stay, but one is led to think that it poses a threat to courts and public alike . The calculation given to us so far as its arithmetic is  Government's counsel suggested that the first petitioner does not represent all the maz- doors. This was refuted by the appellants. Still, we did not have before us any of their 