 There was no contract of service between the appellant and the factory for rolling biding for any fixed hours or period; he was free to go to the factory at any time during working hours  The conviction of the appellant under s. 92 read with s. 79(1) of the Act was wrong . All the ingredients of the word "employed" as laid down by this  Pandurang, however, did not enjoy that leave and was therefore entitled to be paid wages for that period i.e., for 4 days' leave . He was not paid those  Pandurang could work at the house if the appellant permitted tobacco to be taken home . There is no allegation that the appellant had the power to remove him, as a result of continued  Court was considering whether the Sattedars were workers or independent contractors . Pandurang used to be supplied tobacco from the management and supply them rolled bidis . He could turn out as  The management obviously cannot fix the working hours, weekly holidays, arrange for night shifts and comply with other statutory requirements, if the persons like the Sattedars are workers within the meaning of  The worker is to get leave in a subsequent year when he has worked for a period of 240 days or more in the factory during the previous calendar year . The leave admissible under this  Webster's International Dictionary: Term 'full time' means the amount of time considered the normal or standard amount or working during a given period, as a day? week or month'  Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the persons rolling bidis in the factory are not "workers" within the meaning of the Act, as the said persons can come any day they like  Court in Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh ('1A) defined the word ''employed" thus: "The concept of employment involves three ingredients: (1)  "employed" is a word with a varying content of meaning . But a certain amount of supervision or control is necessarily implied in the connotation of the word 'employed'"  All the ingredients of the word "'employed" are present in this case, and therefore the labourers are workers within the meaning of s. 2(1) of the Act . The  The average of earnings would be the criterion for fixing the wages during the leave period . I cannot, therefore, say that s. 79 of the Act by its impact on s. 80 