 1992 SC2100 (54,57) Constitution of India, 1950: Criminal trials-Right of access to-Open public trial- Right of an accused- Sessions trial held in T  Smt. Indira Gandhi was attacked by two assassins in 1984 . Beant Singh and Satwant Singh were armed with his service revolver while Satwant . Singh had SAF carbine .  It is alleged that Balbir Singh, like other accused had expressed his resentment openly, holding Smt. Indira Gandhi responsible for the "Operation Blue Star" The trial Judge found  The High Court has no power to direct that trial of a criminal case at a place other than the normal seat of the Court of Sessions . By shifting the trial to Tihar Jail it  Balbir Singh argued that the document Ex. PW 26/B was not recovered from his possession . The finger prints found on the sten-gun of accused Satwant Singh were not  The death sentence awarded by the trial Court and maintained by the High Court appears to be just and proper . Beant Singh and Satwant Singh were posted on the security duty of the Prime  There is, therefore, no error if the Sessions trial is held in Tihar Jail after such a notification has been issued by the High Court . In our Constitution phraseology difference from the  A statement given in a Commission cannot be used to subject the witness to any civil or criminal proceedings . The first PurPose is to discredit the witness by putting him the earlier statement and  The case in hand is one of such cases and some of the findings of fact reached by the High Court could not be said to be such which are concurrent or conclusive . The Supreme Court  The prosecution evidence itself indicates that on Novembr 1,1984 late at night Balbir Singh's house was searched and a printed Book-Sant Bindrawala was seized  Police did not think it necessary to have an independent witness even for the seizure memo, when particularly some important piece of evidence was recovered from his possession . It is said that he had a  There is no reference after the words 'felt like killing' as to who was intended to be killed, and as to whose feelings were noted in this piece of paper . If there is  The statement of Amarjit Singh PW 44 was recorded thrice during the investigation . In the first statement there is no involvement of Balbir Singh and had alleged against Beant Singh .  Bimla Khalsa stated that Kehar Singh and Beant Singh had secret talks on October 17, 1984 . She wanted to know it, but she was not given to understand .  It is a gruesome murder committed by the accused who was . a . security guard to protect the . Prime Minister . It is one of the rarest of rare cases in which . the  The holding of trial in jail cannot be said to be illegal and bad and entire trial cannot be questioned as vitiated if the High Court thinks it is expedient to hold the trial  Doctor examined the accused and said he was fit to make his statement . Link Magistrate warned the accused he was not bound to make a confessional statement and in case he does so it  The suggestion on behalf of the defence that there was firing from all the sides and accused Satwant Singh was injured seriously and Beant Singh died by this firing has got no basis and it  Section 9(4) empowers the High Court to appoint a Sessions Judge of one division to sit at such place or places in another division for disposal of cases . The High Court may  The enquiry or trial, however, must be conducted in open Court. The dynamics of judicial process should be thrown open to the public at every stage. The public must have reasonable access  The public trial is not disorderly trial. It is an orderly trial. The presiding Officer may, therefore, remove any person from the Court premises if his conduct is undesirable. If exig  There is hardly any instance brought to the attention of this Court where a person who sought permissions was denied access to the Court. The steps taken by learned trial Judge were more than adequate to  The statement made by a person before the Commission shall not be the basis to proceed against him in any subsequent civil or criminal proceedings except for the purpose set out in the section itself . The  The question of absconding by the accused Balbir Singh remains unanswered . There is no evidence from which place the accused came and landed at Najafgarh Bus stand . The  The document Ex. Pw. 26/B is a sheet of paper which contains certain entries . The arrest of the accused at Najafgarh Bus Stand does not inspire confidence .  There is no acceptable evidence that Balbir Singh shared the indignation of Beant Singh against Smt. Gandhi and was in a mood to avenge for the "Operation Blue Star"  There is no material that Balbir Singh took earned leave for any sinister purpose or design . No guilty knowledge of contemplated assassination of the Prime Minister could be attributed to those facts and circumstances  Kehar Singh had the opportunity to bring Beant Singh back to the royal path, by dissuading him from taking drastic action against Smt Gandhi, but unfortunately, he did nothing of  Satwant Singh, a constable in the Delhi Police was on security duty at the Prime Minister's house since July 2, 1983 . He was issued SAF Carbine (Sten-  The records contain evidence as to the identification of arms and ammunition entrusted to the assassins . The stengun issued to Satwant Singh along with 25 empties of the sten-gun were  The case relates to the assassination of Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in 1984 . The three were sentenced to death under Section 302 read with Sec. 120-B IPC .  Sometime later on 22nd December, 1984 the Administration in exercise of powers under Section 8(1) of the Police Act appointed Des Raj Kakkar and M.S. Sharma as  It is learnt that Beant Singh SI and Constable Satwant Singh had also sustained bullet injuries at the hands of ITBP . Legal action may please be taken against them."  Police requested the Magistrate Shri Bharat Bhushan to record a statement of Amarjit under Section 164 Cr. P.C. That was accordingly recorded as PW 44-A  Beant Singh and Satwant Singh manipulated their duties in such a manner that he would be present at the T.M.C. Gate for an interview with an Irish television team .  The High Court heard the case at some length both on questions of law and also on facts . The accused persons indicated at some stage that they were not able to engage counsel but still they  The High Court in the impugned judgment have attempted to draw from proviso which has been a local amendment of Uttar Pradesh. Unfortunately nothing could be drawn from that proviso as admittedly  It was contended that the High Court while exercising jurisdiction under Sec. 9(6) notified the place of trial as Tihar Jail, it indirectly did what the trial court could have done  The law is very clear that as soon as a trial of a criminal case is held whatever may be the place it will be an open trial . The only restriction contemplated is number of persons  The terms of enquiry notified for the enquiry were more or Less the same questions which fell for determination in this case . It was contended that the terms of reference which were notified for  The Commission framed regulations under Section 8 of the Act in regard to the procedure for enquiry and regulation 8 framed therein reads: "In view of the sensitive nature of enquiry the proceedings  The High Court relied on the decision of this Court in the case of Ram Krishan Dalmia v. Justice Tendulkar, [[1958] INSC 30; [[1959]  There are restrictions on the use of a statement made by a witness before the Criminal proceedings except a prosecution for giving false evidence by such statement . The second restriction is spelt out from the  It is clear that without going into the wider questions even a plain reading of Sec. 6 as discussed above will prohibit the use of the previous statements at the trial either for the purposes of  The High Court has reached conclusions which are not justified on the basis of evidence on record it can not be contended that in an appeal under Art. 136 this Court will not go into the  An exception has been carved out in Sec. 10 in cases of conspiracy . Act or action of one of the accused could not be used as evidence against the other . Second part operates only  The allegations in the charge-sheet against this accused if summarised are that Balbir Singh like the other accused persons has expressed his resentment openly holding Smt.Indira Gandhi responsible  There is no evidence as to who asked this accused to go, and his abscondence is not proved . No independent witness has been examined in support of the arrest or seizure of  How he appeared there is all mystery . Instead of searching him and performing the formalities of arrest at the place where the appeared, he was taken to a place said to be the office  The document is a sheet of paper in which we find certain entries. It is reproduced at Pages Nos 57-58 of the judgment prepared by my learned brother Shetty, J.P  A document described by the learned judges of the High Court as very important piece of evidence is nothing hut a scrap of paper . The High Court relied on the fact that after returning from leave  Amarjit Singh's statement during investigation was recorded thrice; twice by Police under Section 161 and then under Sec. 164 Cr. P.C. The first statement is Ex. PW  The High Court has quoted his statement on November 24, 1984 in these words: "He is also reported to have said that Beant Singh had wanted to kill Smt. Gandhi before  The finding of guilt recorded by the High Court against Kehar Singh is a mixture of both relevant and irrelevant evidence adduced by the prosecution . We will consider only those that are most  On 20th October, 1984 Beant Singh's family went to Amritsar with Kehar Singh and his wife Jagir Kaur . They stayed with one M.R.  Beant Singh kept his golden `kara' and ring in the house of Kehar Singh which has been recovered from the latter . The trip to Amritsar of Beant  Kehar Singh was a Constable on security duty at the residence of the Prime Minister . He was charged under Sec. 302 read with Sec. 120-B and Sec. 34 for murdering  The sentence awarded by the trial court and maintained by the High Court appears to be just and proper . In our opinion, therefore, the appeal of Satwant Singh deserves to be dismissed .  A Gazette Notification dated 10.5.1985 was issued under section 9 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure mentioning that the High Court of Delhi have directed that the trial of this  Section 327 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that any place in which any criminal court is held for the purpose of enquiring into or trying any offence shall be deemed to be an open  In the case of Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v Common Wealth of Virginia, U.S. Supreme Court Reports [65 L.Ed. 2nd] 973 . Virginia Chief  Publicity is the authentic hall-mark of judicial as distinct from administrative procedure and a divorce suit is not within any exception . Court must be open to any who may present themselves for admission  The confession of Satwant Singh was recorded in Tihar Jail by the Link Magistrate, Shri Bharat Bhushan . It was vehemently criticised by the learned counsel Mr. Ram  Section 533 allows oral evidence to prove that the procedure laid down in S. 164 had been followed in certain cases where the record which ought to show that does not on the face of  Section 164 (2) requires that the Magistrate before recording confession shall explain to the person making confession that he is not bound to make confession and if he does so it may be used  Accused Satwant Singh wanted to make a statement about the facts concerning Indira Gandhi Assassination Case . Magistrate directed the remand of the accused in judicial custody till 1.11  PW-9 Narain Singh, deposed that he was on duty at 1, Safdarjang Road from 7.30 A.M. on 31.10.1984 .  Ex-Library Assttt. and Personnel Attendant to Smt. Indira Gandhi stated in deposition to the following effect: On 31.10.1984 I had come on  It is clear and apparent that the accused Satwant Singh and Beant Singh fired at Smt. Indira Gandhi while she was approaching the TMC gate . Rameshwar Day  In cross-examination he stated that "The revolver and sten-gun were in the hands of the sardars before Shri Tersem Singh made them hands-up" It is  The conviction and sentence of death as confirmed by the High Court are upheld . It is a gruesome murder committed by the accused who was employed as a security guard to protect the Prime Minister Ind  The motive for the murder was not personal, but the consequences of the action taken by the Government in the exercise of constitutional powers and duties . The assassination of Mrs. Indira Gandhi has  Indira Gandhi fell down never to get up and was rushed to the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Beant Singh was armed with his service revolver while Satwant  The Delhi High Court accepted PG NO 140 Murder Reference 2/86 and confirmed the conviction and the sentence of death on all the accused . The High Court also confirmed the other sentences on Sat  Section 9(4) and Section 194 of the Code may also be examined in order to understand the true meaning of the word "place or places" in the section 9(6)  Section 9(4) empowers the High Court to appoint a Sessions Judge of one division to sit at such place or places in another division for disposal of cases . The High Court may  Delhi High Court ruled that the trial of the case should be held at Tihar Jail . It is argued that public trial in jail in the very nature of things is neither desirable nor possible  The validity of jail trial with reference to Section 352 of the Code of 1898 since re-enacted as Section 327(l) has been the subject matter of several decisions of different High  The High Court upheld the validity of that trial . The trial was held in recreation room which was within the jail compound . It was accessible to the public and press reporters, some members of  The High Court ordered the trial of the case should take place in Tihar Jail . The Sikhs were killed and the local police force was badly shaken . The reaction of outrage went on  Public access to a criminal trial helps to ensure the fairness of the proceeding . The courts like other institutions also belong to people. They are as much human institutions as any other .  Public attendance at criminal trials is a key means by which the public can learn about the activities of police, prosecutors, attorneys and other public servants . Public awareness of the functioning of judicial proceedings  All press representatives and news agencies have been allowed to come to attend the trial . BBC, London Times, New York Times and Associated Press have also been allowed and admitted and are, in  There can be no doubt or dispute as to the adequacy of safeguards provided to constitute an open trial . The steps taken by learned trial Judge are more than adequate to ensure fair trial as  The U.S. Supreme Court considered whether the public and press have a constitutional right of access to criminal trials under the first amendment . Globe Newspapers v. Boston v. Globe Newsp  The Commission framed regulations under sec. 8 of the Act in regard to the procedure for enquiry . Regulation 8 framed thereon reads: "In view of the sensitive nature of the enqu  The trial court said that the statements recorded by the Commission are inadmissible in evidence by any subsequent proceedings . The High Court rejected both the applications in the course of the judgment which is  Section 6 provides: "No statement made by a person in the course of giving evidence before the Commission shall subject him to, or be used against him in any civil or criminal proceedings except  Judges and lawyers spoke of a 'golden rule' by which statutes were to be interpreted according to grammatical and ordinary sense of the word . They said that it would be for the  A Commission appointed under the Act does not decide any dispute . There are no parties before the Commission . There is no list . The Commission is not a Court except for a limited purpose .  The Royal Commission appears to have thoroughly examined the provisions as to immunity to witnesses in the legislations of Canda Australia and India and sec. 9 of the Special Commission Act, 1888 .  Court does not exercise its overriding powers under Art. 136(1) of the Constitution and the circumstance that because the appeal has been admitted by special leave does not entitle the appellant to open  Balbir Singh was all along under police custody right from the day when he was taken to Yamuna Velodrome on November 1, l984 . He was not absc  A charge under sec. 109 IPC should be along with some other substantive offence committed in consequence of abetment . The offence of criminal conspiracy is, on the other hand, an  Balbir Singh was arrested at Najafgarh Bus Stand on December 3, 1984 . No question as to absconding was put to the accused in the examination under sec.  The document refers to bare meetings, visits of persons, or visiting somebody's house . It was not in possession of the accused when his house was searched in the early hours of November 1  Chander Singh (PW 52) whose evidence no Court of law could believe . Only one entry which makes a reference to killing is the second entry which refers to "felt like killing  It is essential that the offence of conspiracy requires some kind of physical manifestation of agreement . Gerald Orchard of University of Canterbury, New Zealand (Criminal Law Review I974, 297  The High Court summarised the evidence against Balbir Singh as follows: He was an officer on security duty at the PM's house. He shared the indignation of Beant Singh against  High Court relied upon the earned leave taken by Balbir Singh for the period from June 15 to July 76. 1984 . There is no evidence that during the said period, he met  Amarjit Singh deposes before the Court: "It did not occur to me that assassination was the handywork of Balbir Singh and Kehar Singh after i Had learnt about the  Balbir Singh was an Assistant in the Directorate General of Supply and Disposal, New Delhi . He converted Beant Singh and through him satwant Singh to religious bigotry . The prosecution  There is no evidence that Beant Singh and his wife were deliberately taken by Kehar Singh to expose them to provocative Bhajans . No attempt appears to have been made in these directions  Bimla Khalsa deposed that in the same evening Kehar Singh took meals in her house alongwith her husband and Satwant Singh who later joined them . Apparently, Beant  The post crime conduct of Kehar Singh is conclusive of his guilt . Bimla Khalsa wanted to accompany them to see the Akal Takhat, but she was told to see  Satwant Singh was a constable in the Delhi Police recruited on January 11, 1982 . He was posted in the Fifth Batallion of the Delhi Armed Police (DAP) After further  Deshpal Singh took up position at Beat No. 4 while Satwant Singh TMC Gate was nearer to a latrine . Narain Singh, Rameshwar Dayal and  The defence put forward by Satwant Singh that he was decoyed to the TMC gate where he received bullet injury is patently false . The eye witnesses are not strangers to the  Two bullets recovered from the body of Mrs. Gandhi are traceable to the sten-gun and revolver . Dr. Prasad (PW 12), Principal Scientific Officer, Ballistic Division  The preparations for and the execution of this egregious crime do deserve the dread sentence of the law . It is the most foul and senseless assassination. It is a betrayal of the worst order. 