 The petitioners' lands were notified for acquisition for the purpose of housing schemes and proceedings in respect of compensation payable to them were pending . Land Acquisition (Madras Amendment) Act, 1961  The object of slum clearance for which the land was stated to have been acquired under the Amending Act could not be related to agrarian reform in its limited or wider sense .  The Amending Act did not therefore offend Art.298(2) of the Constitution . The discrimination between persons whose lands were acquired for . housing schemes and those whose lands . were acquired  The petitioner owns lands bearing survey Nos. 4-2, 40-7 and 43-1 of Peruakudal Village and of extents 1.82, 1.39 and  The acquisition, though it purports to be for a housing scheme, is really intended for selling the lands acquired and raising revenue for the State . The acquisition is, therefore, a colour  The scope of Art. 31-A of the Constitution fell to be (1) [[1953] INSC 81]; [[1954] S.C.R. 558  The judgment accepts the view that Art. 31-A was enacted only to implement agrarian reform, but has given a Comprehensive meaning to the expression "agrarian . reform"  The West Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948, was not in compliance with the provisions of Art. 31(2) of the Constitution . Mrs. Bela Banerjee's  The Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955 amended Art. 31(2) and the amended Article reads "No property shall be compulsorily acquired or requisitioned save for a  The real difficulty is, what is the effect of ouster of jurisdiction of the court to question the law on the ground that the compensation provided by the law is not adequate? The argument  The learned Judge described how the Legislature may transgress the limits of its constitutional power thus :"Such transgression may be patent, manifest or direct, but it may also be disguised, covert  The State Government acquires a land for a housing purpose, the claimant gets only the value of the land at the date of the notification or an amount equal to the average market value of  Madras had considered the question of development of the "neighborhoods" of the Madras city for relieving the growing- congestion and overcrowding in the city . The  The Amending Act empowers the State to acquire land for housing schemes at a 634 price lower than that the State has to pay if the same was acquired under the Principal Act .  The petitioner in Writ Petition No. 144 of 1963 will get one set of costs, and the petitioner in writ Petitions Nos. 227 and 228 of 1963 of 1963 . One hearing fee 