 Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960, was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to the regulation of the letting of residential and non-residential buildings  The word 'claim' means "a demand for something as due", or "to seek or ask for on the ground of right", etc. in India .  A landlord seeking eviction of a tenant from a non-residential premises under section 10(3)(a)(iii) of the Act should in order to succeed in his petition, establish  The appellant purchased the running business from the brother of the respondent's brother, who was carrying on business in hardware in the front portion of the ground floor of the premises bearing No 157,  The appellant agreed to pay a consolidated amount of Rs.1,000 per month by way of rent for both the portions in the year 1981 . The respondent again demanded enhanced rent after the  For purposes of sub-section (3) of section 10 of the Act the buildings are classified into two categories by the Act, namely, residential buildings and non-residential buildings .  The High Court has upheld the said plea of the respondent relying upon the said three decisions . The object of the Act was to prevent unreasonable evictions of tenants from buildings . The provision in  Section 10 of the Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960, provides for eviction of tenants in certain circumstances . Sub-section 3(a)(iii) of  S. 10(3)(a)(i) deals with residential buildings. S.10(3) deals . with non-residential buildings used for purpose of keeping vehicles . S  The entire gamut of facts and circumstances has to be adverted to on this question . The matter stands remitted to the Appellate Authority for him to consider it afresh taking  Landlord cannot be attributed with the intention that it required a more stringent proof by insisting upon proof of bona fides of his requirement or need also when a landlord is seeking eviction of a  Appeal Court: Landlord seeking eviction of a tenant from a non-residential premises should prove he bona fide requires the premises in addition to proving the other ingredients mentioned in section 10( 