 An award for a total sum of Rs. 1,i6,446-iI-5 was made against the respondents in respect of the first and the third original contracts . The  The award was valid and could not be set aside as the third settlement neither expressly put an end to the arbitration clause nor, considered as an accord and satisfaction, did it have that effect  The outstanding disputes under the first and the second contracts were settled on September 6, 1948, and two separate documents were executed to evidence the said settlement . The settlement in respect of the first  Government demanded payment of Rs.1,51,723 in instalments from the three original contracts . Arbitrator made an award in favour of the Government for a total sum of  The leave obtained without mentioning that fact would have been revoked in the present case . The legal position was clarified by the Privy Council in Payana Reena Saminathan v Payana  The House of Lords in Norris v. Baron and Company (2) in the context of a contract for sale of goods brought out clearly the distinction between a contract which varies the terms of  The original three contracts were cancelled by the Government on May 21, 1945, . by the government . Under the first contract, the Government made a claim for the price of the raw-  We do not find any justification for this contention either in the express terms of the contract or in the surrounding circumstances whereunder the document came to be executed . It was a self-contained  An arbitration clause is a written submission, agreed to by the parties to the contract, and must be construed according to its language and in the light of the circumstances in which it is made  Lord Macmillan made similar observations at p. 345: "If it appears that the dispute is as to whether, there has ever been a binding contract between the parties, such a  An arbitration clause is a collateral term of a contract as distinguished from its substantive terms, but none the less it is an integral part of it . If the original contract has no legal existence  The settlement has received the approval of Director General of Industries and Supplies, New Delhi . The firm will pay a sum of Rs. 45,000 in full and final settlement of the  An arbitrator made an award in favour of the appellant in the sum of Rs. 1,16,446-11-5 in respect of its claim on the ladles cook and  An arbitration agreement, of course, is the creature of an agreement and what is created by agreement may be destroyed by agreement . Lord Macmillan considered it elementary " that the parties to  The parties were only intending to decide the dispute as to cross-claims made on the basis of the breach of the contract . Lord Wright said in Heyman's case that an arbitration  The settlement cannot be said to have altered the original contract or even to have rescinded it . It only settled the dispute as to the breach of the contract and its consequences .  The award was said to be liable to be set aside inasmuch as it disclosed an error on the face of it . This error, it was said, consisted in awarding damages larger 