 Constitution of India, 1950: Articles 14, 19 and 21--Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster (Processing of claims) Act, 1985--Constitutional validity of Central Govt  There was a massive escape of lethal gas from the MIC Storage tank at the Bhopal plant resulting in the tragic death of about 3,000 people . Many suits were filed in various  In view of the magnitude of the misery involved and the problems in this case, the setting aside of the settlement on this ground would not be in the ultimate interest of justice . Settlement without  Parens patriae doctrine recognised King as the pro- tector of all citizens as parent . Government is within its duty to protect and to control persons under disability .  The Indian State because of its constitutional commitment is obliged to take upon itself the claim of the victims and to protect them in their hour of need . There is no bar on the State to  Section 3 provides for the substitution of the Central Government with the right to represent and act in place of (whether within or outside India) every person who has made or is entitled to make  The Government of India is only capable to represent the victims as a party . The doctrine of 'Bona fide Representation' as also 'defacto validity' are not applicable to  The victims have been given an opportunity of making their representation before the court comes to any conclusion in respect of any settlement . How that opportuni- ty should be given, would depend upon  The Indian Constitution mandates that clearly, otherwise the Act and the actions would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution . The rules of natural justice can operate only in areas not covered by  Though not expressly stated, the Act proceeds on 'the major inarticulate premise' that the State would be justified in taking upon itself the right and obligation to proceed and prosecute the  The Act does not create new causes of action or create special courts . The jurisdiction of the civil court to entertain suit would still arise out of section 9 of the CPC and the substantive cause  There is no special legisla- tion providing for compensation and damages to outsiders who may suffer on account of any industrial accident . As the law stands today, affected persons have to approach civil  The law should provide for constitution of tribunals regulated by special procedure for determining compensation to victims of indus- trial disaster or accident, appeal against which may lie to this Court only  The Act divests the individual claimants of their right to sue and vests it in the Union . Individual claimants are also at liberty to engage their own counsel to associate with the State counsel  There were possibilities that the litigation may have to be fought out to the bitter finish . There was also the possibility that the UCC might be willing to adequately compensate the victims either on their  Is the [Bhopal Gas Leak Disaster (Processing of Claims) Act, 1985] (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') is constitutionally valid? That is  Between December 1984 and January 1985 suits were filed by several American lawyers on behalf of several victims . Within a week after the disaster, many American law- yers, described by some as  The Union of India filed a suit for damages in the Distt. Court of Bhopal, being regu- lar suit No. H 13/86 . Union Carbide was  The High Court ruled that under the substantive law of torts, the Court has jurisdiction to grant interim relief under Section 9 of the CPC . On 30th June, 1988 Judge Deo  The terms of settlement were as follows: The parties acknowledge that the order dated February 14, 1989 disposes of in its entirety all proceedings in Suit No. 1113 of 1986 . The  A "claimant" is defined as a person entitled to make a claim . The Central Govt. was enjoined to frame a scheme which was to take into account, inter al  A Scheme has been framed and was published on 24th September, 1985 . It provides for the manner of filing claims . It also provides for categorisation and registration of claims .  Mr. Garg said the Act must be exam- ined on the touchstone of the fundamental rights on the basis of the test laid down by this court in state of Madras v  Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 reiterates that all human-beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights . Article 8 states that everyone has the right  It was contended that under the law the victims had right to ventilate their rights . It was further contended that Union of India was a joint tort-feasor along with U  The Act was passed in order to confer powers on the Central Government to secure that the claims arising out of, or connected with, the Bhopal gas leak disaster are dealt with speed  The monetary claims, as was argued on behalf of the victims, are damages flowing from the gas disaster . The Central Government is given the exclusive right to represent the 'claims', meaning  Parens patriae is the inherent power and author- ity of a Legislature to provide protection to persons non suijuris, such as minor, insane, and incompetent persons  Justice White referred to the meaning of the expression "parens patriae". It means literally 'parent of the country' and refers traditionally to the role of the State as a sovereign and  Government feared it might not have locus standi to represent victims in the courts of the United States of America unless a law was passed to enable it to sue on behalf of the victims  It was contended by the Government that it was a legislation relating to "actionable wrongs" under Entry 8 of the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule . But so read, she  The victims who wish to sue for and on their own behalf must have power to sue, all proper and necessary parties including Government of India, Government of Madhya Pradesh, UCIL and  Section 9 of the Act read with clauses 5, 10 and 11 of the Scheme empower the Central Government to process claims, determine the category into which these fall, deter- mine the basis  Section 6 of the Act is unreasonable because it replaces an independent and impar- tial Civil Court of competent jurisdiction by an Officer known as the Commissioner to be appointed by the Central Government  The word "claim" in section 2 does not include claims against Central Govt. or State of Madhya Pradesh or UCIL . Other suits filed against UCC, UCIL,  Bhopal gas victims singled out for hostile discrimination resulting in total denial of all procedures of approach to competent courts and tribunals . Central Government was incompetent to represent victims in litig  The Act was passed empowering the Government of India to take necessary steps for processing of the claims and for utilisation of disbursal of the amount re- ceived in satisfaction of  Shri Garg submitted that the Government in this case was guilty of negligence . Government allowed the Union Carbide factory to be installed in the heart of the city . The Government allowed habitation  The Central Govt., according to Shri Shanti Bhushan, cannot have any right or authority in relation to any offences which arose out of the disaster and which resulted in criminal  Shri Shanti Bhushan asked for a decree awarding various specified amounts to different victims whose names had to be disclosed . Even if details were not available at the time when the suit  It was submitted that the concept of 'parens patriae' would not be applicable in these cases . A class action would have served the same purpose as a suit brought under the statute  The possibility of abuse of a statute does not impart to it any element of invalidity . The validity of a measure is not be determined by its application to particular cases . The power to  The Act was passed replacing the Ordinance at a time when many private plaintiffs had instituted complaints/suits in the American Courts . In such a situation, the Government of India acting in place  The right to compromise provid- ed for by the Act, could not be held to be violative of the principles of natural justice . Mr. Charan Lal Sahu, one  A compromise entered into in a suit filed under Order 1 Rule 8 of the CPC was binding on all persons as the plaintiffs who had instituted the suit in representative capacity had the authority to compromise  The Act provides for assumption of rights to sue with the aim of securing speedy, effective and equitable results to the best advantage of the claimants . The settlement was a substitute for adjudication since  It is further to be examined whether such conduct was in discharge of the sovereign functions of the Govt. of India . The Government of India enjoys sovereign immunity in accordance with settled law .  The suit was filed only against the UCC and not against UCIL . The UCC had the right to be sued before the American tragedy was treated as the U.rerere  A Committee of three attorneys was formed before the case proceeded before Judge Keenan . Private plaintiffs were also represented by their attorneys . No other person was properly designed for representing the victims as a  Learned Attorney General submitted that the Act only authorised the Govt. of India to represent the victims to enforce their claims for damages under the Act . The amount of $ 470 million which was  The Constitution Bench has stated in the said order dated 4th May, 1989 . The questions raised on the point in the review-petitions, the Court was of the view, prim  The Court found that from the order of the High Court and the admitted position on the plaintiff's side, a reasonable prima facie estimate of the number of fatal cases and serious personal  An order dated 3rd March, 1989 passed by the Constitution Bench in respect of writ peti- tions Nos. 164/86 and 268/89, consisting of 5 learned Judges  There is no curtailment of any right with respect to any criminal liability . The Act does not deal with either claims or rights arising out of such criminal liabil- ity .  Law has to grow in order to satisfy the needs of the fast changing society and keep abreast with economic developments taking place in the country .  The measure of compensation in these kinds of cases must be correlated to the magnitude and capacity of the enterprise because compensation must have a deterrent effect . The larger and more prosperous the enterprise, the  The Act, as such does not abridges or curtail damages or liability whatever that might be . The challenge to the Act on the ground that there has been curtailment or deprivation of the  It was contended that the procedure evolved under the Act for the victims is peculiar and having good deal of disadvantages for victims . Such special disadvantageous procedure and treatment is unequal treatment, it was  It was contended by the learned Attorney General that the State had taken upon itself this onus to effectively come in as parens patriae, we have noted the long line of Indian  Bhopal Act gives power to the Central Govt. to frame by notification, a scheme for carrying into effect the purposes of the Act . The Act deprives the victims of the  It has been claimed that the Central Govt. was not competent to represent the victims in the Bhopal gas leak disaster . It was urged that there is a conflict of interest between  The Central 689 Govt. was not judging any claim, but was fighting and ad- vancing the claims-of the victims . In those circumstances, it cannot be said that  In the circumstances of the case, as mentioned hereinbefore, the Government of India is only capable to represent the victims as a party . The adjudica- tion, however, of the  Section 3 provides for the substitu- tion of the Central Government with the right to represent and act in place of (whether within or outside India) every person who has made, or  The phrase 'natural justice' is not capable of static and precise definition . Rules of natural justice can operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made .  The Representation of the People Act, 1951 contains section 90 and the proce- dure of Election Tribunals under the Act was governed by the said provision . All civilised  Victims have to be given an opportunity of making their representation before the court comes to any conclusion in respect of any settlement . How that opportunity should be given, would depend upon the particular situation  If the victims want to advert to certain aspect of the matter during the proceedings under the Act and settlement indeed is an important stage in the proceedings, opportuni- ties must be given to  The Act would be bad if it is not construed in the light that notice before any settlement under S. 4 of the Act was required to be given . Then arises the question of consequences  It is not necessary that all other particulars for the basis of the proposed settlement should be disclosed in a suit of this nature before the final decision . Disclosure of further particulars are not warranted by  The Act was conceived on the noble promise of giving relief and succour to the dumb, pale, meek and impoverished victims of a tragic industrial gas leak disas- ter . The  The credibility of the judiciary is as impor- tant as the alleviation of the suffering of the victims, great as these were . We hope these adjudications will re- store that  Sabyasachi Mukharji, CJI has ren- dered a detailed and elaborate judgment with which I re- spectfully agree . The constitutional validity of the Act has been  As the law stands to-day, affected persons have to approach civil courts for obtaining compensation and damages . In civil courts, the determination of amount of compensation or damages as well as the  Bhopal Gas tragedy has raised several important questions regarding functioning of multi-nationals in third world countries . Multi-national companies exploited the under-developed nations and in some cases they  A number of factors need consideration by the Government and the Parliament . The law must require transnationals to agree to pay such damages as may be determined by the statutory agencies and forum constituted  A settlement was arrived at between the Union and the UCC under which a sum of Rs.750 crores has been received by the Union in full settlement of all the claims of all  Every person who suffered as a consequence of the gas leak had a right to claim compensa- tion from the persons who, according to him, were liable in law for the injury caused  Section 3 makes right of the Government of India to represent the victims in court enquiries in Bhopal . Even if the provisions of S. 3 had been scrupulously observed,  Section 3 and 4 combine together the interests of the weak, illiterate, helpless and poor victims as well as those who could have managed for themselves, even without the help of this enactment  The legislation cannot be considered to be unreasonable merely because in addition to the right to institute a suit or other proceedings it also empowers the Government to with- draw the proceedings or enter into  The provisions of the Act, read by themselves, guarantee a complete and full protection to the rights of the claimants in every respect . They cannot file a suit themselves, save only that they  A modern welfare State is under an obligation to give succour and all kinds of assistance to people in distress cannot at all be gainsaid . The provisions of the Act and scheme thereunder  The Act 724 deals with a class of action which is sui generis and for which a special formula has been found and encapsuled in S.4\. The Act divests  The difficulty in this case has arisen, as we see it, because of a fortuitous circumstance . It has been pointed out that even when the issue regarding the interim relief was debated in  A review petition has already been filed in the case and is listed for hearing . Court's approval of the settlement is the true safety valve to prevent unfair settlements .  We are of the view that the time is ripe to take a fresh look at the outdated cen- tury old legislation which is out of tune with modern con- cepts  Foreign corporations seeking to establish an industry here, agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts in India in respect of actions for tortious acts in this country . We hope that calamities 