 1984 SC 1622; 1985 (1) SCR 88; 1984 SCC (4) SCC 116; 1984 (2) SCALE 445 . Constitution of India, 1950,  The Bombay High Court allowed the appellant appeal in part regarding his conviction and sentence of death awarded under section 302 I.P.C. and all the three accused to rigorous imprisonment for two  It is manifest that all these statements come to light only after the death of the deceased who speaks from death . For instance, where the death takes place within a very short time of the  There is a vital difference between an incomplete chain of circumstances and a circumstance, which, after the chain is complete, is added to it merely to reinforce the conclusion of the court . The  A close and careful scrutiny of the evidence of the witness (PWs 2, 3, 4 and 5) who are close relatives or deceased and conspicuously reveals a story which is quite  The High Court found that the opinion of the doctor that Manju died by mechanical suffocation had not been proved or at any rate it is not safe to rely on such evidence . The  Prosecution failed to prove one of the most essential ingredients of a case of death caused by administration of poison i.epossession with the accused (either by direct or circumstantial evidence  The conduct of the doctor in making certain later interpolations in the case of suspicious death in which the appellant has been sentenced to death by the two courts below deserves serious condemnations . The  The High Court and the trial court rejected the theory of suicide and found that Manju was murdered by her husband by administering her a strong dose of potassium cyanide . The defence argued that  It is alleged by the prosecution that Manju Ujvala was the real mistress of the house and Manju was there only to obey her orders . After this incident, Manju  In the 'Law of Evidence' by Woodroffe & Ameer Ali (Vol.II) the authors have collected all the cases at one place and indicated their conclusions thus:.  The phrase "circumstances of the transaction" conveys some limitations . It is narrower than "res gestae" (See Pakala Narayana Swami v. The  A statement merely suggesting motive for a crime cannot be admitted in evidence unless it is so intimately connected with the transaction itself as to be a circumstance of the transaction . The Bombay High Court has  Section 32 is an exception to the rule of hearsay and makes admissible the statement of a person who dies, whether the death is a homicide or a suicide, provided the statement relates  An analysis of the above clearly shows that Manju was a highly secretive woman . She wanted to keep her personal matters or 111 secrets to herself except giving a rough idea or a passing glimpse  The words used by her show her affectionate and secretive nature and the precaution taken by her not to tell any thing to her father, who is addressed as 'Bhausab' The  A letter dated 23.4.82 written by the deceased to her close friend, Vahini shows her exact feelings, changing, mood and emotions . Exh. 32, though  The last line "every time some fear is in mind which leads to confusion" is the starting point of the first symptom of her invisible fear which she was unable to locate . In the  Some people who commit suicide can be classified as psychotic or severely disturbed . Suicide is simply one of the ways in which a relatively weak member of society loses out in the jungle like struggle .  Some statements which have a causal connection with the death of Manju or circumstances leading to her death are undoubtedly admissible under s.32 of the Evidence Act . Other statements which do not  The witness states that when Manju came to Beed with her maternal uncle he found her somewhat uneasy and on making enquiries whether she was happy at her husband's house she told him  Manju and Sharad had gone on a holiday trip to Mysore, Triupati, etc. Dhanraj informed the witness that Sharad and Manju had returned  Manju must have known fully that her husband's sister's . sister's 127 betrothal ceremony was to be held on 13th June and if her father-in-law was  The story of having a sexual act, etc., was a pure figment of the imagination of the witness . The character, conduct and the temperament of Manju, as disclosed or ev  The witness deposed that Manju told her that her husband was not taking any interest in her and used to leave the house early in the morning and return late at night on the excuse  Sharad put forth a proposal under which both of them were to commit suicide and they decided to write notes showing that they were committing suicide . On hearing this plan from Sharad, Man  Manju became erratic which attracted double cruelty towards her by her husband and made her extremely scared of her life . Manju requested her mother not to send her back to the house of the  The statement of this witness is more or less a carbon copy of the evidence of PW-20 which has been discussed above . She did not disclose anything of such great consequence which would have  The statement undoubtedly contains a clear hint that she had almost made up her mind to end her life, come what may and thereby put to trouble her husband and his family members as being suspect  There is no reference to suicidal pact or circumstances leading to the same . No mention of the fact that the deceased was not at all willing to go to Pune and that she was sent  Prosecution has not been able to exclude or eliminate the possibility of suicide beyond reasonable doubt . High Court does not suggest that this was not a case of murder at all but would only go  The High Court seems to have speculated that Manju must have died at 12.00 a.m., that is to say, within 15-20 minutes of the arrival of the appellant  B.K. Kadu, who was serving as a watchman at the Takshila apartments says that near about the midnight he was called by Rameshwar, A-  Most of the statements which he made in the Court against Birdichand and the other accused, were not made by him before the police . He admitted in his statement at p. 387  The allegation that A-3 told him to report the time of death as 5.30 a.m. is not at all proved . The High Court seems to have made a capital  If it is assumed that the accused did not commit the murder of the deceased then the weeping and wailing and expressing his grief to PW 2 would be quite natural and not fake . The  In the original postmortem notes there is a clear interpolation by which the words `can be a case of suicidal death' appear to have been scored out and Dr. Banerjee  Despite persistent cross-examination the Doctor appears to have stuck to his stand . In the original while filling up the said column the Doctor appeared to have scored out something; the filled up entry  The High Court has presumed that there being no dependable evidence that the information given to the police by Mohan Asava was false and that the appellant must have told A-3 about  The High Court has overlooked a very important part of the evidence of PW 2 who has stated at page 178 of part I of the printed paperbook thus: "The plastic factory at Be  Court says it is not necessary for us to multiply on this point as this question now stands concluded by several of this Court . It was argued before the High Court that it was highly improbable  The law on the subject is well settled for the last 6-7 decades and there have been so many decisions on this point that the principles laid down by courts have become more or less  The King v. Horry, Gresson and Goddard laid down the rules in the absence of a corpus deliciti . The rules were laid down by Lord Goddard in Lord Goddard v  A false plea can at best be considered as an additional circumstance, if other circumstances point unfailingly to the guilt of the accused . This Court, therefore, has in no way departed  The comment by the High Court appears to be frightfully vague and absolutely unintelligible . The High Court has not indicated as to what was the basis for coming to a finding that the  The High Court relied on the case of Pershadi v. State of Uttar Pradesh('). The court held that the circumstantial evidence was consistent only with the guilt of the accused  The observations on which the High Court has relied upon appears to have been torn from the context . On the other hand, some of the observations made in these cases support the accused rather than  Court ignores or overlocks the crying circumstances and proved facts, violates and misapplies the well established principles of criminal jurisprudence and refuses to give benefit of doubt to the accused  Manju passed her B.Sc. degree examination in 1980 . Her marriage with the appellant was settled by a formal betrothal ceremony which took place in June 1981 . Manju's  Manju's presence in his family house at pune was necessary for the betrothal ceremony of his daughter Shobha fixed for 13.6.1982 as well as for her  Syed Mohideen claims to have taken two ladies, three children and a baby by his auto-rickshaw at about 11 p.m. on that day to Mukund Nag  P.W. 2 went from Beed to Pune alongwith his wife and his son Pradeep and Hiralal Sarda . Manju died due to potassium cyanide  Doctors P.W.24 and 25 did not find any external injury on the body of Manju which they saw at about 2.30 and 4.30 a.m. on  Evidence of P.W.3 is that during Manju's second visit to Beed after her marriage with the appellant she found Manju not quite happy and very much afraid of the  Even if there is any evidence about any ill-treatment of Manju by the appellant or his parents it has to be completely excluded from consideration . I felt it necessary to say this in  The alleged oral statements of Manju to P,Ws.2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 are said to have been made during her second and third visits to Beed in  When a person is not proved to have died as a result of injuries received in the incident in question, his statement cannot be said to be a statement as to the cause of his death  The alleged oral statements of Manju and what she has stated in her letters, Exs 30, 32 and 33 may relate to matters perhaps having a very remote bearing on the cause or  The High Court has rejected the case of the prosecution based on Dr. Banerji's report and evidence that it was also a case of mechanical suffocation is not one that could be  The conduct of the Doctor in making these later inter polations and alterations in the records of the postmortem examination in the case of suspicious death in which the appellant has been sentenced to death  S. S. C. P.C.195 lays down that in every inquiry or trial for the purpose of enabling the accused personally to explain any circumstance appearing in the evidence against him  Question of admissibility of Manju's letters Exs. 30, 32 and 33 and oral evidence of P.Ws. 2, 3, 5, 6 and 20 about alleged  In that view of the matter I agree with my learned brothers that the guilt of the accused has not been proved beyond all reasonable doubt . 