 The respondents challenged the constitutional validity of the Durgah Khwaja Saheb Act, 1955 (XXXVI of 1955) and certain specified sections by a petition filed under Art.  The past history of the Endowment for centuries showed that its management was always vested in Mutawallis appointed by the State . The protection of Art. 26 of the Constitution can extend  Appeal from the judgment and order dated January 28, 1959, of the Rajasthan High Court in D. B. B.'s Civil Writ Petition No. 17 of 1957 . Appeal  The respondents claim they are members of a religious denomination or section known as Chishtia Soofies . The right of the Khadims to the offerings and Nazars made by  The High Court has found that the offerings made before the tomb for nearly 400 years before it was rebuilt into a pucca structure must have been used by the Khadims for themselves .  Khwaja Moin-ud-din was born in Persia in 1143 and moved from place to place until he reached Ajmer about the end of the 12th Country . He  In or about 1560 Akbar defeated the Malwa Kings and Ajmer came under Moghul rule . Akbar took great interest in the tomb and that must have added to the  The Moghul rule in turn was disturbed in 1743 by the Rajput Rathors who were in power for nearly 13 years . The Rathor rule came to an end when the  The Government of India appointed the Committee under the Chairmanship of Justice Ghulam Hasan in 1949 to enquires into and report on the administration of the Durgah Endowment . The  Syed Asrar Ahmed claimed a declaration that the office of the Mutawalli of the Durgah Khwaja Saheb, Ajmer, was hereditary in his family .  Soofism really denotes the attitude of mind, that is to say, a soofi while accepting all that orthodox Islam has to offer, finds lacking in it an emotive principle .  At sunset there is a beat of Nakkara which gathers the pilgrims at the Mazar . At this time the Khadims carry lamps inside the dome and touch the heads of devote  The Durgah Committee will be the authority to decide whether such article is required or should be retained for the use of the shrine, i.e. the last day of the '  Privy Council found that Khadims who (1) A.I. R.407 work as the servants of the Shrine were no doubt entitled to the offerings as already indicated .  Section 11(f) refers to the power of the Committee to determine the privileges of the Khadims and to regulate their presence in the Durgah . Under s. 11(  Article 26 provides that subject to public order, morality and health every religious denomination or any section thereof shall have the right- (a) to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes  The High Court is concerned with the freedoms guaranteed under Art. 26(c) and (d) in particular . The respondents contend that the appointment of the Committee contemplated by . ss.  Until Akbar made his endowment in favour of the Durgah, there was hardly any property to manage or administer . Administration of the properties endowed was always in the hands of officers  The Khadims' right to receive offerings which has been judicially recognised is in no manner affected or prejudiced by the impugned provisions . Offerings or Nazars which  The plea that the freedom to practice religion guaranteed by Art. 25(1) has been violated does not appear to be well founded . The argument that s. 16 offends against the  Section 14 is attacked on the ground that it violates the respondents' right to property under Art. 19(1)(f) It is urged that s. 18 also violates the fundamental rights 