 The United Khasi-Jaintia Hills District was formed as one of the Tribal Areas of Assam . The appellant challenged the Notification by a petition for the issue of a writ in  Per Hidayatullah, J. (dissenting) : No action could be effective without Parliamentary legislation under Paragraph 21 to amend the operative portion of paragraph 20 which Parliament alone  The Governor's Notification is one of the means of achieving the change but effectiveness can only be given by Parliament as it was done on previous occasions when Act 18 of 1954 and Act 42 of  The United Khasi-Jaintia Hills District was formed as one of the Tribal Areas of Assam, and in this area were merged the Khasi States with the other areas of  The minority judgment has upheld the arguments of the appellant and has held that the impugned notification is invalid . The High Court, by a majority decision, has dismissed the writ Sup.  Part A of the table originally consisted of six items; the first amongst them was the United Khasi-Jaintia Hills District . The item of 'The Naga Hills-District  Paragraph 15 deals with annulment or suspension of acts and resolutions of District and' Regional Councils . Paragraph 16 deals with the dissolution of a District or a Regional Council .  Paragraph 1(3) confers on the Governor power to issue notification for the purpose of bringing about any of the results enumerated seriatim by clauses (a) to (  Act No. 18 of 1954 was passed by Parliament on the 29th April, 1954 to change the name of the Lushai Hills District . It is doubtful if the power exercised by  Paragraph 20(1) provides that the areas specified in Parts A and B of the table shall be the tribal areas within the State of Assam . The impugned notification has  Paragraph 20(1) itself may be affected, and if that happens, it would become necessary to enquire whether the exercise of the Governor's power can, without parliamentary legislation,  The main controversy centres round the question as to whether the Governor considered the report and made his recommendations . Mr Setalvad contends that this report did not in fact recommend the creation of  Paragraph 14(2) expressly says that the explanatory memorandum which has to be laid before the Legislature of the State must indicate the action proposed to be taken by the Government of Assam  The appellant impugns the judgment of the High Court of Assam and Nagaland at Gauhati, dated February 5, 1965, by which his petition under Art. 226  Schedule 5 is for Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes in States other than Assam and Schedule 6 is for the tribal areas in the State of Assam . Schedule 5 contemplates  The term 'Scheduled areas' is defined as such areas as the President may by order declare to be Scheduled Areas . Under the Fifth Schedule the Governor is the sole legislature for  District and Regional Councils have power to make laws for various matters and such laws are effective after the Governor assents to them . Administration of justice is entirely under the control of the District  The laws made by Parliament or the Legislature of the State do not run automati- 798 cally in these areas . The laws are either made by the District Councils or are  Sub-paragraphs give the extent of the autonomous districts named in Part A of the table at the end may now be read: "20. The areas specified in Parts A and B  Paragraph 21 reads: "Parliament may amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any of the provisions of this Schedule" The Governor's powers under sub- paragraph 3 of paragraph  The Governor has no power under clauses (c), (d), (e) and (f) to amend paragraph 20(2) and the Table . Whether he has that power over  There is a difference between paragraph 6(2) and paragraph 1(3) of the sixth Schedule . As this, extra jurisdiction is missing the Governor acting under the Sixth Schedule can only  The distinction between excluded and partially excluded areas was made in the Government of India Act 1935 . Most of these areas were excluded from the legislative power of the Central and Provincial legislatures and 807  The Government of India Act 1935 was the enactment of ss. 91 and 92 in the Government . Act 1935 . After these two sections were enacted the Scheduled District Act 1874 became obsolete  There is no dyarchy in the Tribal areas in Assam so that the Governor may be induced by the Council of Ministers to do contrary to what his judgment requires . The Governor must be  The Governor was apparently only informed after everything was over as to what was being done . The main obstacle to smooth working of the new District Council will be the Jaintias . 