 Industrial Dispute-Profit bonus-Agreement between Labour and Mill-owners-Full Bench Formula, whether contravened by Agreement-Tribunal's competence to extend Agreement .  The impugned five years pact was not contrary to industrial law as laid down by the Supreme Court . The pact also did not infringe the principle that bonus depends upon profits . The  The total number of cotton textile mills in Ahmedabad is 66; therefore, 66 references under s. 73-A of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, No. XI of 1947 (here  A mill had to pay to its employees bonus which would in no case be less than an amount equivalent to 4.8% of basic wages earned during the year; nor was it to  Federal Court also approved the view of Ludwig Teller that- "industrial arbitration may involve the extension of an agreement or the making of a new one, or in (1) [[1950  There are two conditions, which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and (1) when wages fall short of the living standard, and (2) industry makes  An industrial court has power generally to extend agreements or to create new obligations . The Agreement which has been extended, is not based on industry-cum-region approach, as it is understood  A different formula was worked out for awarding profit bonus linked with production on the basis that there were profits . But when the formula is worked for each mill the bonus would differ from mill to  The tribunal was undoubtedly ignoring the industrial law as laid down by this Court and going against it . It was its duty when dealing with the question of profit bonus to apply the Full Bench formula  The agreement has put a ceiling on bonus and that is a term very much in favour of the employer, because in some cases where the available surplus is very large, then under the working  The Industrial Court to which the dispute was referred elaborately considered the arguments advanced . The main question in the appeals is whether the said pact violates the law laid down by this Court . The  The maximum bonus payable by every mill in the Ahmedabad Textile Industry was fixed at 25 per cent. of the total basic wages earned during the year . The minimum of 4.8  The Bombay Textile Industry, The Madhya Bharat Mill-owners' Association and the Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, adopted the pact in a dispute between the Bombay Mill  In Muir Mills Co. Limited v Suti Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur (1) this Court defined the term "bonus" and laid down the conditions which would give  The agreement was a multilateral one involving mutual obligations . It was on industry-cum-region basis, that is, it was entered into between employers of the entire industry and employees of  Each mill undertook liability to pay bonus to its employees with a minimum and maximum limits in consideration of a similar undertaking of liability by other mills . If a mill did not make profits in a  Industrial Court adopted the agreement as a part of the award by giving it a span of six years instead of five years; with the result that the entire formula of "set-on"  Industrial Court in the present case was certainly within its rights to extend that pact for another year . The agreement avoided complicated and acrimonious disputes in courts every year in regard to bonus 