 Kerala Private Forests (Vesting & Assignment) Act (Act 26 of 1971) purported to acquire forest lands held on Janman right, without payment of compensation, for implementing a scheme  The High Court, has not given any substantial reasons for coming to the conclusion that the scheme of agrarian reform is a "teasing illusion and a promise in unreality". The  The technology of agrarian reform envisages transmuting rural life from feudal medivealism into equal, affluent modernism . The Indian Constitution is a social instrument with an economic mission  The lands involved are private forest lands situated in the former Malabar District which, after the States Re- organization Act, 1956, stood transferred from the old State of Madras to  Kerala High Court declared the Kerala Private Forests (Vesting and Assignment) Act 26 of 1971 unconstitutional and void . The High Court held that the provisions of the Act are not protected by  The Madras Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1949 (Madras Act XXVII of 1949), applied immediately before the appointed day . The appointed day means the 10th day of May  The Kerala Private Forests (Vesting and Assignment) Ordinance 1971 was promulgated prior to this Act . The Act purports to acquire forest lands without payment of compensation for implementing a  There is no definition of what is meant by 'agricultural lands' in the Act itself . The Preamble to the impugned Act states that forests in Kerala are '  A large proportion of the forests in the former Travancore Cochin State belonged to the Government and only a small proportion to private owners or janmies . The Malabar  Special Officer felt the need of settling chunks of the agricultural population in blocks of reserve forests . He envisaged the formation of large blocks in the forest area so that in the neighborhood and on  The impugned Act provides for the vesting in the Government of private forests for the assignment thereof to agriculturists and agricultural laborers for cultivation . Janman rights in the States  The Kannan Devan Hills (Resumption of Lands) Act 5 of 1971 disclosed a scheme in section 9 which is very similar to our own section 10 of the impugned  There is no provision with regard to trees in the forest reserve under section 10 and a suspicion is expressed that the Government may appropriate to itself the value of the trees . Mention is made  Kerala Private Forests (Vesting & Assignment) Act, 1971 (Act 26 of 1971) (hereinafter called, for short, the Forest Act) challenged its vires under  The Supreme Court has cut back on this amplitude by limiting entitlement to constitutional protection to agrarian reform legislation only . Subba Rao, J., in Kochuni's(1) case  The main features of the agrarian situation in India and in other like countries are the gross inequality in land ownership, the disincentives to production and the desperate backwardness of rural  Sikri J. ruled that a scheme of agrarian reform is essential, apart from taking over of jamman rights, to make the law valid . In Rajo Anand's  Forest lands reserved under s. 10 are to be utilised "for purposes directed to the, promotion of agriculture or for the welfare of the agricultural population or for purposes ancillary thereto  The Forest Act is calculated to bring benefit to landless laborers, tribals and other proletarian groups in the over-populated state of Kerala . Appeals allowed writ petitions dismissed . 