 Constitution of India 1950 Article 14-Classification when constitutional- Andhra Pradesh Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960 Section 32 (b) of the Act  The writ petitions were resisted by the State Government and the landlords, on the ground that since sec. 32 (b) was valid at the commencement of the Act as held by the High  The long period that had elapsed after the passing of the Act itself served as a crucial factor in deciding whether the impugned law had become discriminatory or not . The ground on which the  All buildings constructed on and after August 26,1957 from the operation of the Act is challenged in these petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution . The judgment of the Court was delivered by  Both the Madras Act and the Hyderabad Act were repealed and replaced by the Act which came to be passed in 1960 . Section 32 of the Act was enacted as follow:- "32  The Andhra Pradesh Building (Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960 came into force on the 21st April, 1960 and applies to buildings constructed prior to the 26  The Government are facing acute shortage of accommodation 603 and it has become almost impossible to requisition any old building constructed prior to the 26th August, 1957 to meet the growing needs of  Supreme Court: Exclusion of buildings for a particular period, reckoned from the date of completion of their construction is a better course than providing that the proposed Act shall not apply to buildings constructed  The State of Madhya Pradesh v. The Gwalior Sugar Co. Ltd. was challenged on the ground that Article 14 of the Constitution had thereby been contravened . The High  The High Court found that the pleadings in the case were inadequate to decide whether Article 14 of the Constitution had been actually violated or not . This view was followed in Vishwesha  The application of the Madras Act of 1951 to the District of South Kanara only, the Act will have to suffer a serious and successful challenge in the not distant future . A comprehensive  The owners of buildings covered by section 32(b) of the Act should continue to enjoy the exemption until there is evidence to show that there is no longer any such shortage of housing accommodation  There being no justification for the continuance of the benefit to a class of persons without any rational basis whatsoever, the evil effects flowing from the impugned exemption have caused more harm to  Venkatarama Ayyar, J. summarised the principles governing the said doctrine in R.M. Chamarbaugwalla v. The Union of India(1)  Clause (b) of section 32 of the Act should be declared as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution . The court has ruled that the Act has to be sustained even after striking  The petitions are accordingly allowed . No costs are required . Petitions allowed . 