 The Central Government set aside the resolution of the directors and directed the company to register the transfers . The company obtained special leave to appeal against the decision of the Central Government under Art. 136  The directors were not required to give reasons for their decision and there was a presumption that they had acted properly and in the interest of the company . Central Government acted as a tribunal within the  Harinagar Sugar Mills Ltd. is a public limited company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 . The directors of the company by resolution dated August 1, 1953, in purported exercise  Shyam Sunder and Savitadevi preferred appeals to the Central Government . The Central Government exercising appellate powers under s. 111 el. (3) of the Indian [Companies Act,  The Companies (Appeals to the Central Government) Rules, 1957, have been framed by the Government . The rules say that a company must register the transfer of, or the transmission by  There was no provision similar to s. Ill of the Indian [Companies Act, 1956], in the Act of 1913, nor is our attention invited to any provision in the English Companies Act  The power in appeal to order registration of transfers has to be exercised subject to limitations similar to those imposed upon the exercise of the power of the court in a petition for that relief under s  The condition precedent for bringing a tribunal within the ambit of Art.136 is that it should be constituted by the State . The authority of the Central Government entertaining an appeal under s.  Directors of Paiva and Penney refused to register the shares of the company . The Master of the Rolls directed the transfer to be registered, the directors failed to submit any reasonable ground or  The court would presume that where the directors have refused to register the transfer of shares when they have been invested with absolute discretion to refuse registration, that the exercise of the power was bona fide  The Bombay High Court declined to order rectification on a summary proceeding and relegated the parties to a suit . The High Court is unable to decide whether the Central Government did not transgress the limits  The Deputy Secretary, who heard and decided the appeals, gave no reasons for his decision . Special leave can only be granted in respect of a determination by a Court or tribunal, which the  A tribunal is not necessarily a Court in this strict sense because it gives a final decision . Nor because it hears two or more contending parties appear before it between whom it has to decide  The Act says that an appeal shall lie to the Central Government . We are, therefore, faced with the question whether the . Central Government can be said to be a . tribunal . The  Article 47-B gives to the Directors a right to refuse to register shares in their absolute discretion, without giving reasons . In In re Gresham Life Assurance Society, Ex Part  The case arose before the Judicial Committee in Moses v.368 Parker, Ex Parte Moses (1). Held: that the Crown's prerogative to grant special leave to appeal is  Court quashes orders passed by the Central Government and direct that the appeals be reheard and disposed of according to law . Costs of these appeals will be costs in the appeals before the Central 