 Has an organiser or producer of any event a right to get the event telecast through an agency of his choice whether national or foreign? Has such organiser a choice of the agency  There may as well be a file telecast [i.e., telecasting of the events which are already recorded by the cassette]. The issues involved in file telecasting will also be  The Court held that the freedom of speech and expression includes freedom of propagation of ideas and that freedom of circulation is ensured . The majority of the Court rejected the argument that the securing of the  The majority held that the imposition of pre- censorship of a journal was a restriction on the liberty of the press which was an essential part of the right to freedom of speech and expression declared  The Court held that Article 19 (a) did not permit the State to abridge the said right in the interest of general public . It also held that the State could not make a  The majority held that by the freedom of press is meant the right of citizens to speak and publish and express their views . It was further held that the machinery of import control cannot be util  The freedom of expression is a preferred right which is always zealously guarded by the Supreme Court . The Court reserved its opinion for decision in an appropriate case . The issue of an order of  The Court's commitment to freedom of expression demands that it cannot be suppressed unless the situations created by allowing the freedom are pressing and the community interest is endangered . Movie motivates thought and action  There is nothing wrong or contrary to Constitution in approving the film for public exhibition . The producer or as a matter of fact, any other person has a right to draw attention of the government  The licence holder was under an obligation to publish the rejoinder . There was nothing offensive in the . rejoinder which fell within the restriction clauses of Article 19 . The Court also pointed out  The High Court held that the respondent's right under Article 19  (a) obliged the Doordarshan to telecast the film . Censorship is permitted to protect social interests  In 1951 a licence granted for the exhibition of a motion picture was rescinded by the appropriate New York authorities -on the ground that the picture was "sacrilegious" within the  No one has a First Amendment right to a license or to monopolize a radio frequency . To deny a station license because "the public interest" requires it "is not a denial of  The research was carried out at the University of Science in New York . It is the first time the research has been carried out that the researchers have been able to examine the nature of the  Five members of the court held that neither the public interest standards of the Federal Communications Act nor the First Amendment, assuming that there was governmental action for First Amendment purposes, required broadcasters to accept  The cable television company argued that lack of space on public utility structures, the limited economic demand, and the practical and aesthetic disruptive effects on the public right of way justified 142 its decision .  Media freedom as a tool of self-expression is a significant instrument of personal autonomy . It helps to promulgate a society's cultural values and facilitates the debate about them, ad- v  The learned author states that the case is unconvincing for it infers that it is right for the Government to regulate broadcasting from the fact that it has opportunity to do this .  It cannot be right to subject more persuasive types of speech to greater restraints than those-imposed on less effective varieties . The author accepts the view of the majority of the US Supreme Court in  The rights to access provide some compensation for the expropriation by the public monopoly of the freedom to broadcast . Access rights can only be framed effectively by legislature or by specialist administrative agencies .  Public order is not the same thing as public safety and hence no restrictions can be placed on the right to freedom of speech and expression on grounds other than those specified under Article 19 of the  The power to pre-censor films and to grant licences for access to telecasting, has to be exercised in conformity with the provisions of Article 19 . It is in this context that  Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) is also non-profit making Organisation which controls officially organised game of cricket in India . The primary object of both organisations is to promote the game of  NUB argues that the analogy of the right of the press under Article 19  (a) vis-a-vis the right under . Article 19 (g) cannot be extended to  The right of viewer can only be safeguarded by the regulatory agency by controlling the frequencies of broadcast as it is otherwise impossible for viewers to exercise their right to free speech qua the electronic  BCCI/CAB have the fundamental right to televise the game of cricket organised and conducted by them for the benefit of public at large . The right to disseminate information is a  The restrictions sought to be imposed fall outside the ambit of Article 19(2) and are unconstitutional . It is further contended that there is no monopoly in relation to what viewer must today  The earnings of BCCI and CAB are basically from arranging various tournaments, instadia advertisements and licence fee for permitting telecast and censorship . At least 70 per cent of the income earned  The right to freedom of speech and expression also includes the right to educate, to inform and to entertain . The former is the right of the telecaster and the latter that of the viewers  There is no demand for owning or controlling a frequency, unlike in the US which came for consideration before the US Supreme Court, the right to share in the frequency is not claimed without a  The only limitations on the said right is, therefore, the limitation of resources and the need to use them for the benefit of all . The only objection taken against the refusal to grant the  BCCI/CAB is asserting a right under Article 19  (a) while asserting the said right, it is incidentally going to earn some revenue . It has the right to choose  BCCI/CAB had every right to create terrestrial signals of their event and to sell it to whomsoever they thought best . Since in the present case, the DD has not refused  On March 31, 1993, DD sent its bid as 'Host Broadcaster' for a sum of Rs. 1 crore stating inter alia, that CAB should grant signals to it  VSNL asked CAB to approach Ministries and Telecom Commission for approval . Ministry of Home Affairs gave 'no objection' to filming of cricket matches at any of the places mentioned in  Trans World International will do the coverage of thesematches with their own equipment, crew and commentators . TWI will allow Doordarshan to pick up the Signal and telecast live  CAB filed a writ petition in the Calcutta High Court praying that the respondents should be directed to provide telecast and broadcast of all the matches . The choice of the matches to  Committee of Secretaries decided that the telecast of all sporting events would be within the exclusive purview of the DD/MIB . The High Court in clarification of its order of No  The CAB had decided to sell/allot worldwide TV rights to only one party . CAB entered into an agreement with World Production Establishment representing the interests of TWI for telecasting  CAB wanted a minimum of U.S. $8 lakhs, i.e., Rs.2.40 crores . However, DD insisted that it would be the host  Each of the parties was trying to score over the other by taking advantage of its position . The blame for the collapse of the negotiations has to be shared by both . If anything, this  BCCI/CAB had approached the Calcutta High Court on 8th November, 1993 . It was contended that the MIB woke up suddenly to the relevant provisions of the statute  The Union of India preferred an appeal against the decision and in the appeal moved an application for staying the operation of the orders passed by the learned Single Judge on 8th/9th November  It is made clear that Doordarshan shall on these conditions start immediately telecasting the live matches of the Hero Cup for the subsequent matches from the next match in India .  The Collector of Customs, Bombay wrote to the CAB that it had given an undertaking to fulfill all the conditions of the ad hoc order dated 2nd November, 1993 under which exemption was  The High Court had directed the Secretary, Ministry of Communications to decide the question of granting of licence under Section 4 of the Telegraph Act within 3 days from 12th November, 1993 by its  BCCI requested the Director, Sports, of the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Department of Youth Affairs and Sports to grant permission to it or TWI/SPN to telecast the  The BCCI will not permit the ESPN to enter into any contract either with A.T.N. or any other Agency for telecasting in any manner all over India, whether through  The High Court 'will now apportion between the CAB and the DD the revenues generated by the advertisements on T.V. during the telecasting of both the series of the cricket  AIR and Doordarshan enjoy a monopoly in this country in the matter of broadcasting and telecasting . They cannot think of any other agency doing the same job . They are seeking to  Cricket Association of Bengal wrote to Doordarshan asking it to send their detailed offer which could be any one of the two alternatives mentioned in the letter . The offer was requested to be  The letter indicated the matches which Doordarshan would be allowed to telecast directly . The offer was, however, subject to certain conditions which inter alia included the condition that Do  The CAB approached the Calcutta High Court by way of a writ petition being Writ Petition No.F.M.A.T.Nil of 1993 . The writ petition  The equipment brought by TWI for the purpose of production of transmission and telecasting of cricket matches was seized by the Bombay customs authorities, allegedly under the instructions of the Ministry of Telecomm  The first problem placed before the Bench was placement of cameras . Doordarshan authorities complained that they have not been given suitable place for the purpose of telecasting . CAB and TW  BCCI filed a writ petition, being Writ Petition No.628 of 1994, for issuance of a writ, order or direction to the respondents (Government of India and its various departments and  The Indian Telegraph Act must be understood and construed in the light of Article 19(1)(a) Section 4 of the Act is only a regulatory provision . Radio and television are only a  The charge of malafides and arbitrary and authoritarian conduct levelled against Doordarshan and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is wholly unfounded and unsustainable in the facts and circumstances of the  Until recently, 97% of the telecasts made by Doordarshan did not earn any income . The state monopoly is created as a device to use the resource for public good .  Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court directed the Secretary to the Telecom Department to decide the question whether such licence should be granted to CAB in connection with Hero Cup matches . The  An authoritarian conduct levelled against the Doordarshan and/or other governmental authorities is unacceptable in the facts and circumstances of this case . Providing entertainment is a form of expression and  Article 19(1)(a) declares that all citizens shall have the right of freedom of speech and expression . Existing laws providing such restrictions are saved and the State is free to make  "Radio waves" or "Hertzian waves" means electromagnetic waves of frequencies lower than 3,000 giga-cycles per second propagated in space without artificial guide . The  The print media, public educators, so VItal to the growth of a healthy democracy, is the lifeline of any democratic institution . Any attempt to stifle, suffocate or  Government monopoly over broadcasting media is nothing unusual and it is not solely because of the fact that India was not an independent country, or a democracy, until 1947-50 . Even in well  In 1927, a Royal Charter was granted with a view to ensure the independence of BBC . It prohibits the BBC from expressing its own opinion on current political and social issues and from receiving revenue  An ordinance issued in 1959 legalised government control over the radio . In 1964, public monopoly was re-affirmed by law . No private broadcasting was allowed since broadcasting services were regarded as  In Italy too, the broadcasting was under State control, to start with. In 1944, Radio audizioni Italia (RAI) was created having a monopoly in broadcasting .  Austrian Broadcasting Corporation with the status of an autonomous public law corporation is a sufficient compliance not only with the national laws but also with Article 10 of the Convention . The court held that the refusal  Radio Act, 1927 was enacted by Congress creating the Federal Radio Commission with authority to grant three year licences to operate radio stations on an assigned frequency . FCC evolved the Fairness Doctrine in 1949  First Amendment has been interpreted as conferring on broadcasters rights, which have not been derived from the comparable provisions in continental countries . In 1970s, it was argued that programming restraints were contrary  European courts have taken the view that restraints on freedom of broadcasters are justifiable on the very ground of free speech . This is also the view taken by the Italian and French courts .  No private radio or television channel or sta- 216 tion can be established without prior authorisation from the regulatory body, Conseil superieur de l'audiovisuel  U.S. Supreme Court laments the deleterious effect the emergence of media empires had on the freedom of Press in that country . Court said: "The abuses of bias and  The more stable the society is, the more scope, it provides for exercise of right of free speech . Freedom of speech and expression in a democracy ensures that the change desired by the people  The importance and significance of television in the modern world needs no emphasis . Most people obtain the bulk of their information on matters of contemporary interest from the broadcasting medium .  Broadcasting media by its very nature is different from Press. Airwaves are public property. It is the obligation of the State under our constitutional system to ensure that they are used for public good  Public good lies in ensuring plurality of opinions, views and ideas and that would scarcely be served by private broadcasters . Private broadcasters would be and who are bound to be actuated by profit motive  Article 10(1) conferred the right "to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority" The only power given to public authority is to provide the requirement of license and  The question whether to permit private broadcasting or not is a matter of policy for the Parliament to decide . This is the result of the legislation in this country not keeping pace with technological developments .  The petitioners (CAB and BCCI) have a right to organise cricket matches in India, whether with or without the participation of foreign teams . They are seeking a license to tele  The analogy of press is misleading and inappropriate . The question whether such right should be given to the citizens of this country is a matter of policy for the Parliament . Government monopoly of broadcasting media  The law in this country has stood still, rooted in the Telegraph Act of 1885 . BCCI had no right in law to have its matches telecast by an agency of its choice  Costs.  costs. costs. are a result of the government's failure to negotiate with the government. Costs. costs . 