 Life Insurance Corporation Act (Act 31), 1956, sections 11, 23 and 49, scope of-Whether a general law or a special law-Industrial Disputes Act . Annual cash  Disputes between the Corporation and its workmen in regard to the latter's conditions of service were received by two settlements dated the 24th January, 1974 and the 6th February, 1974  Industrial Disputes Act is a benign measure which seeks to pre-empt industrial tensions . The meat of the statute is industrial dispute, not conditions of employment or contract of service as such .  Industrial Disputes Act is a special statute devoted wholly to investigation and settlement of industrial disputes . Life Insurance Corporation Act is not a law for employment or disputes arising therefrom, but a national  An application of the generalia maxim makes it clear that the I. D. Act being special law, prevails over L. I. C. Act which is a general law .  The deletion of the words "from time to time" found in the Bill, is of no consequence . The notification dated 26th May, 1980 purporting to amend the Standardisation Order  Parliament intended to provide for the Corporation's "workmen" employees the same opportunities as are available under the Industrial Disputes Act to the workmen of other employers, as demonstrated by section  The Industrial Disputes Act would no doubt be a special Act in relation to a law which makes provisions for matters wider than but inclusive of those covered by it, such as the Indian Contract  Section 11(1) read with that clause confers on the Corporation the power to alter the terms and conditions in question-a power not enjoyed by it under the provisions of the Industrial  The terms and conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation forming part of a settlement under the I. D. Act cannot last after they have been altered in exercise of the powers conferred  Section 11(2) of the Corporation Act suffers from no ambiguity either by reason of the omission therefrom of the expression "from time to time" or otherwise . Clause 9 of the  There is thus no delegation of any real power to the Corporation through the promulgation of clause 9 . New contentions, not raised before the High Court, like "necessity for rev  The Indian judicial process, sui generis in some respects, has its problems, Himalayan in dimension but hardly appreciated in perspective . The judges are not monks or scientists, but participants  In the pages that follow I adopt, for convenience, the same acronyms and abbreviations as have been used by brother Koshal, J. in his judgment . Lord Den  The LIC Act brought into being a statutory corporation, i.e. the Life Insurance Corporation and life was breathed into it as from September 1, 1956 . Since there was nationalisation of  The Central Government promulgated the Life Insurance Corporation (Alteration of Remuneration and other Terms and Conditions of Service of Employees) Order 1957 (the 1957 Order, for short)  The Board of the Corporation and the Central Government, which presumably knew the scope of the LIC Act and the ID Act, did approve of these settlements . The High Court (Lucknow Bench  The two settlements of January 24, 1974 and February 6, 1974, arrived at in pursuance of the provisions of s. 18 read with s. 2(p) of the ID  The ID Act deals with industrial disputes, provides for conciliation, adjudication and settlements and regulates the rights of parties and the enforcement of awards and settlements . Section 19 relates to the period  The ID Act substantially equates an award with a settlement, from the point of view of their legal force . Section 9A fetters the Management's right to change the conditions of service  Sewerage Board case has highlighted the spinal nature of the legislation . The meat of the statute is industrial dispute, not conditions of employment or contract of service as such .  The parties representing the workmen submitted their Charter of Demands to the Life Ins. Corpn. of India (hereinafter called the Corporation) for revision of the scales of pay  Malhotra: Termination of an award by either party under s. 19(6) does not have the effect of extinguishing the rights flowing therefrom . The effect of termination  The award that exists, shall continue to regulate the relations between the employer and the employees, the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 . The court, in our view rightly rejected the contention of  The award, or as the case may be, a registered agreement or a settlement under the Bombay Industrial Relations Act has obviously the effect of superseding the contract or agreement that existed and that  The effect of s. 4 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies) Decision Act is that the award ceased to be in force after March 31, 1959 . That has nothing to  In the Indian Oil Corporation case (supra) the question turned on the management seeking to effect changes in the service 1122 conditions of the workmen . This was laid down by the  The award or settlement under the ID Act replaces the earlier contract of service and is given plenary effect as between the parties . The High Court's holding would be to disregard the current of  An implied repeal is the last judicial refuge and unless driven to that conclusion, is rarely restored to. The decisive point is as to whether the ID Act can be displaced or dismissed as a  The ID Act is a special statute devoted wholly to investigation and settlement of industrial disputes . It does not deal with workmen or disputes between workmen and employers . The Corporation has an army  The [Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act] is a special Act dealing with a specific subject, namely with conditions of service, enumerated in the Schedule, of workmen in  The High Court was right in its conclusion and I affirm its judgment . The law is still developing, but the important thing is that the courts once again accept, as they had always done  Life Insurance Corporation (the "Corporation") issued a notice, purportedly under s 19(2), [Industrial Disputes Act, 1947], of its intention to terminate the settlements  Sub-s. (1) guarantees to the transferred employee the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he  There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution . The  The case of the Corporation and the Union of India is that Regulation 58 was framed when the settlements had ceased to be operative and binding under s. 19(2) of the Industrial Disp  The award does not cease to be effective after the period of operation of an award has expired . It continues to be binding on the parties, by virtue of s. 19(3)  Industrial Disputers Act deals with the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes between an employer and his workmen . The Act constitutes special law in respect of a settlement reached under its auspices between  The only provision, so far as I can see where the Corporation Act permits disregard of the Industrial Disputes Act and awards, settlements or agreements is the second limb of s. 11(  The petition was filed by the Class III and Class IV employees of the Corporation challenging the right of the employer and the Union of India to change to the detriment of the said employees . The  Section 23 of the L. I. C. Act gave to the Corporation the power to employ such number of persons as it thought fit for the purpose of enabling it to discharge its functions  An annual cash bonus will be paid to all Class III and Class IV employees at the rate of 15% of the annual salary . Clause 8 of each of the settlements was to the following  Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India declared it to be void as offending article 31(2) of the Constitution of India through a judgment which is reported as Madan  Allahabad High Court concluded that the I. D. Act is an 'independent Act' which deals with adjudication and settlement of matters in dispute between an employer and his workmen .  The High Court appears to have somehow tried to apply the maximum generalia specialibus non derogant to the situation with which it was concerned .  A prior special law would yield to a later general law, if either of the following two conditions is satisfied: (i) The two are inconsistent with each other. (ii) There  Sub-section (2) of section 11 gives Central Government power to alter terms and conditions of service of employees of the Corporation in certain situations . Central Government can alter them even to the  ITXA |124 |1999|07/14/1999|06/08/09/2001|08/15/1947| NMS |124 . .124 |  /2001|08/15/1947:08/16/01/02/01 /02/02 /01/2002 . ARBP |124 |2001|01/  The power may well be exercised in conformity with the provisions of section 11. Hukam Chand etcv. Union of India and others,(1) and B. S. Vader  The Electricity Supply Act does not presume to be an Act to regulate the conditions of service of the employees of State Electricity Boards . The case cited, however, presents no parallel to the case  Bhagwati, J., delivered the judgment on behalf of himself, Iyer and Desai, JJ.: "The impugned Act deprived Class III and Class IV employees of  Bhagwati, J., appreciated the force of regulation 58 and remarked: "Regulation 58 undoubtedly says that non-profit sharing bonus may be granted by the Life Insurance Corporation to  Court "even though it did not advert to regulation 58", but also failed to take notice of the clearly expressed opinion of Bhagwati, J., that bonus under the two settlements  The parties before the Court in that case were the South Indian Bank Ltd. and one of its clerks named A. R. Chacko who had been promoted as an accountant with effect  The High Court concluded that even a notice under section 19(6) of the I.D. Act would not terminate a settlement but would have the effect of merely paving the way for  Chacko v. Suchdev Singh & Ors v. Raghuvanshi is the creation of the L.I.C. Act itself and therefore a statutory corporation .  Recruitment under section 23 need not have waited for action under section 11(2) because absorption of the transferred employees into the Corporation may itself necessitate a change in the conditions of  Section 11(2) of the Act confers power on the Central Government to alter the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation . Mr. Chatterjee says the  A learned single Judge of the Madras High Court in K. S. Ramaswamy and anrr. v. Union of India and ors., of which I fully  The language of section 11(2) of the L.I.C. Act is very clear, says the Gujarat High Court in Harivadan K.Desai and others v  The majority of six held that the 1976 Act was violative article 31, which Beg, J. ami,J., doubted . The bonus for the period up to the 31st  Judges chose not to decide whether 1976 Act was or was not hit by articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution of India .  The only other contention raised on behalf of the employee was that regulation 58 could not operate to make in-applicable the 1974 settlements to the 3rd period . The impugned 