 The two collieries were taken over by the Central Government under its management with effect from October 17, 1971 . The appellants sought to recover the amount of subsidy of about Rs.  The whole object and purpose of the Nationalisation Act is to expropriate private ownership of coking coal mines and all interests created therein . The term 'owner' in sub-s  The plea that not they but someone else was the managing contractor is only an after-thought . The payment in question was not by way of assistance receivable from the erstwhile Coal  Appeals by special leave against a judgment of the Delhi High Court turn on the construction of certain provisions of the [Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972]. The appeals raise  Under an agreement of October 1969, the New Dharmaband Colliery was brought over by Messrs Sethia Mining & Mfg. Corporation Ltd . An inventory was prepared of the assets  Petitioners filed a Writ petition in the Delhi High Court seeking a declaration that sub-s. (1) of s. 4 does not provide for the acquisition of the right, title  The Nationalisation Act provides by sub-s. (1) of s. 3(n) that the right, title and interest of the owners in relation to the coking coal  Lala Karamchand Thapar's case was overturned by the Court of Appeal . The Nationalisation Act itself makes a distinction between an 'owner' and a 'managing  The plea that not they but someone else was the managing contractor is only an after thought . The expression 'managing contractor' as defined in s. 3(i) of the National  The insertion of this clause is to make both the owner as well as the contractor equally liable for the due observance of the Act . Each is a separate and distinct category of persons and  The High Court relied upon the decisions in Barclays Bank Ltd. v. Quistclose Investments Ltd. and Coal Products Private Ltd v. I.T.O., which are both distinguish  The payment in question was not by way of 'assistance' receivable from the erstwhile Coal Board for carrying out of stowing and other safety operations and conservation of the coal 