 Review of judgments or orders by the Supreme Court is to the effect "the review petition should be admitted and the appeal should be reheard after the decision of Nandini Satpathi  On May 16, 1975 he passed an order that only stern action should he taken for realisation of loans . This date is alleged to have been later changed to May 14, 1975 by  An application was filed on 17.1. 1983 to review the judgment under Article 137 of the Constitution read with Order XI of the Supreme Court Rules . The application was dismissed in limine  The legal position expounded by the Supreme Court in R.K. Jain's case and in Ram Naresh Pandey's, case is correct . If any change in the law  Admitting a review petition is not, the same thing as setting aside the order sought to be reviewed . Article 137 of the Constitution is a special power with the Supreme Court to review any  The acquittal or discharge order under s.321 are not the same as the normal final orders in criminal cases . The Legislature had only intended that the court should perform a supervisory function  Supreme Court cannot assess the evidence to find out whether there is a case for acquittal or conviction and cannot convert itself into a trial court . The State is the master of the litigation in  Per Bhagwati (on behalf of himself and G.L. Oza J.) (Minority view) (Per contra) (737F- H) Per Bh  Dr. Jagannath Misra was discharged in respect the offences for which he was sought to be prosecuted . But it was not an order of discharge which was challanged by Sheon  It is a well-established proposition of law that a criminal prosecution does not become vitiated on account of mala fides or political vendetta of the first informant or the complainant  The Public Prosecutor cannot withdraw from the prosecution unless the Court 717 before which the prosecution is pending gives its consent for such withdrawal . This is a provision calculated to ensure non-arbit  There is no danger of abuse or misuse of power by the Government inherent in this process . The Public Prosecutor cannot move the court for its consent to withdraw from the prosecution without the permission of  The court is called upon to do when an application for withdrawal from the prosecution is made by the public prosecutor on the ground that there is insufficient or no evidence to support the prosecution . The  The court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate Patna as also the High Court were clearly in error in granting consent to the withdrawal of the prosecution against Dr. Jagannath Misra and  The main controversy is whether the prosecution launched against Dr. Jagannath Misra at a time when he was not in power has been rightly allowed to be withdrawn by the Chief Judicial Mag  Audit team of the Reserve Bank in its Report came to the conclusion that Nawal Kishore Sinha and others were responsible for 'bad loans' to the tune of Rs. 12  Dr. Jagan- nath Misra asked for the concerned file, Shri Abdul Ghafoor, on a reference made to him directed on 27th January 1975 that the file  Dr. Jagannath Misra passed another Order in his own hand on a piece of paper in Hindi under his signature and had it pasted over the earlier order dated 16th May  Dr. Jagannath Misra did not want any prosecution to be filed against Nawal Kishore Sinha and others . The Reserve Bank of India cancelled the banking licence of the  The Commissioner of Cooperative Department put up a lengthy note on 15th January, 1977, to the Minister Cooperation in which he specifically placed the proposal of the Superintendent of Police (Cooperative Vigil  M.A. Hyderi had earlier made a confessional statement on 3/4th November, 1976 in which he had not implicated Dr. Jagannath Misra but in the  Shri Lallan Prasad Sinha filed an application in the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate on 16th Jane, 1981 praying for permission to withdraw from the prosecution of  The High Court did not even consider for itself whether the grounds on which withdrawal of the prosecution was sought were justified or not . The appeal was heard by a Bench of three Judges consisting of  A.N. Sen, J. iman argued that the Review Bench did not exercise the power of review and set aside the order made by the Original Bench . The argument was that  The three Judges of the Review Bench were unanimous in taking the view that "any decision of the facts and circumstances which constitute errors apparent on the face of record" may have the possibility of  Dr. Jagannath Misra argued that this was not a fit case in which the Court should interfere in the exercise of its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Consti- t  The mathe-matics of numbers cannot therefore be invoked for the pur- pose of persuading this Court not to exercise its discretion under Article 136 of the Constitution . 742 She  The learned counsel on behalf of Dr. Jagannath Misra argued that the prosecution should not have been initiated without a prior inquiry made through a Commission of Enquiry set up for  The ques- tion is whether the application for withdrawal made by Shri Lallan Prasad Sinha was within the scope of his power under section 321 of the Code of  The powers of the police in regard to investigation and procedure to be followed by them in such investigation are set out in sections 157 to 172\. Section 190 confers power on the Magistrate  The even course of criminal justice cannot be thwarted by the Executive however high the accused, however sure the Govern- ment feels a case is false, however unpalatable the continu- an  The Public Prosecutor must apply his own mind and come to his own opinion, irrespective of the opinion of the Court . The Court also seemed to accept in State of Orissa v. C  The Public Prosecutor is not the executive, nor a flunk of political power . The same view was reiterated by Krishna lyer J., speak- ing on behalf of the Court, in  The majority Judges however took a different view in the present appeal when it was heard by the earlier Bench . They said that the Public Prosecutor may act on the advice of the Government in applying  Section 24 provides for the appointment of a Public Prosecutor . The Public Prosecutor is an officer of the Court, as indeed every advocate practising before the Court is, and he owes an obligation  There is no danger of abuse or misuse of power by the Government inherent in this process . Application must be based on grounds which advance public justice and the other is that there can be no  A charge can be framed by the Court only if the court is of opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an offence . The Court in both these cases applies  The court is called upon to do when an application for withdrawal from the prosecution is made by the public prose- cutor on the ground that there is insufficient or no evidence in support of  The imperative of public justice may in such cases transcend and overflow the legal justice of a particular litigation . No hard and fast rule can be laid down nor can any categories of 763 cases  The court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Patna as also the High Court were clearly in error in granting consent to the withdrawal of the prosecution against Dr. Jagannath Misra  It would be subjecting the accused to harassment and inconvenience to require them to appear and argue before the Court for the purpose of securing an Order of discharge under section 239 . The High Court  Documentary evidence makes out prima facie case against Respondent No. 2 sufficient to put him on trial for the offence of criminal miscon- duct under s. 5(1)  The three circumstances put up against the accused in this case are (i) that Jiwanand Jha had credited Rs.10,000 and Rs.3000 on 27.12.  Tulzapurkar, J. himself observes in the course of his order that a mere ante-dated a document or an order would not amount to an offence of forgery .  The Court has a responsibility and a stake in the administration of criminal justice and so has the Public Prosecutor, its 'Minister of Justice' The independence of the judi- ciary  Appeal Nos. 48 & 49 of 1983 were originally directed to be posted before a Constitution Bench and this Appeal was also directed . The Chief Jus- tice of the learned Chief J  In August, 1983, the matter was heard in open Court by Tulzapurkar, J., A.N. Sen, J. and R.B, Misra,  Two criminal appeals 48 and 49 of 1983 were referred to a Constitution Bench, originally . The Bench that referred these appeals did not doubt the correctness of such earlier Judgments . The background facts  The charge-sheet was filed by the State of Bihar against the respondents on 19th February, 1979 . The charge against the second respondent was that he, who at all mate- r  The real question that has to be answered in this case is whether the executive function of the public prose- cutor in applying for, and the supervisory functions of the Court in granting  Section 321 Cr.P.C. has to assess the evidence and find out whether the case would end in acquittal or conviction, would be to re-write the scheme of Section  The outer limit for the exercise of this power is "at any time before the Judgment is pronounced" Section 321 gives no indication as to the grounds on which the Public Prosecutor may make the  Section 245(1) gives the Magistrate a power to discharge an accused but the power is lettered by an obligation to record his reasons for doing so . If reasons are not recorded  Section 320(1) pertains to compound- ing of offences, in the table, which are not of a serious nature but not constituting grave crimes . Under Subsection 4(  An order passed under Section 321 comes to this Court by special leave, under Article 136 of the Constitution of India . It has been the declared policy of this Court not to embark upon a  The decision was approved by this Court in M.N. Sankarana- rayanan Nair v. Balakrishnan & Ors., [[1971] INSC  It is diffi-cult to comprehend how the High Court could possibly say that the learned Magistrate accorded consent to the withdrawal of the prosecution on the ground that it was inexpe 