 The respondents were malis who under a contractor looked after the maintenance of a garden adjacent to but outside the Premises of the appellant company which produced textiles . The respondents raised a preliminary  An employee engaged in any work or operation which is incidentally connected with main industry is a workman if other requirements of s. 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act 14 of  The application was made in December, 1962 complaining that the appellant company was liable to pay to the respondents (applicants before the Labour Court) dearness allowance every month according to the  Industrial Court observed that there was no dispute that the appellants in that court had been working as gardeners or garden mazdoors and had been employed through a contractor and not directly by  The High Court is unable to agree with the contention of Mr. Patel that the application of the Act must be restricted to only those workers who are directly engaged in the manufacture of textile fabric  The High Court is unable to find from the certificate as to which ground was considered by the High Court to be important enough to justify the certificate . Article 227 of the Constitution does not confer  The impugned order before us was made by the Gujarat High Court on an application under Art. 227 of the Constitution, the prayer in that application was, to remove the record of  Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that the provisions of the Act which have been extended to the Province of Bombay under Government Notification in the Political and Services Department No. 2847/34  An employee of a contractor applied to the Industrial Court for relief under the pro- visions of the Act . It was held that he could not be deemed to be an employee of the mills  Industrial Disputes Act, 28 of 1947, was laid down by the High Court in the case of Cotton Spg. & Wvg. Mills case (supra) The High Court  The Labour Court and the Industrial Court were based on misconception of the legal position . The High Court was within its authority to interfere under Art. 227 of the Constitution to quash them . 