 The respondents purchased raw cashew nuts within the State of Travancore-Cochin, from the neighbouring states and also imported such from Africa, for the purpose of refining them  Imports from Africa were made in the following ways: (a) purchases were made through intermediaries doing business as commission agents at Bombay who acted as agents for the respondents charging commission .  Purchases would be exempt from taxation under art. 286 (1) (a) If they were directly delivered to the respondents in the Travancore-Cochin State the  Appeals Nos. 26, 27 and 30 to 36 were quashed by the High Court of Travancore-Cochin in 1953 . The respondents are dealers in cashew-  The State of Travancore- Cochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd. v. United Motors (U.S. Cochin) v. U.K. v  North Carolina Department of Revenue proposed legislation authorising States to tax certain sales in interstate commerce . The bill sought to bring about substantially the same result as the combined operation of article 286 clause (  The previous decision had emphasised the integral relation between the two where the contract of sale itself occasioned the export as the ground for holding that such a sale was one taking place in the  If the sale is to be exempt, how is A to be satisfied that the goods would actually be exported subsequently? And even if they were, it must be difficult for A to prove  The court has already held in the previous decision that clause (1) (b) protects the export-import trade of this country from double taxation by prohibiting the imposition of sales tax by  The High Court finds that the purchases of raw nuts whether African or Indian are all made with the object of exporting their kernels . Purchases in the State by the exporter for the purpose  DAS J.-This and eight other appeals have been filed by the State of Travancore-Cochin against the judgment and order of the High Court of that State dated  Travancore-Cochin claimed exemption from sales tax on their respective purchases made between the 26th January, 1950, when the Constitution came into force, and the 29th  The Indian States were not governed by the distribution of legislative powers contained in the Government of India Act, 1935, and were, therefore, generally free to make whatever laws they thought fit to  The State Legislatures, on the other hand, are alone authorised to make laws, under entry 26 in the State List with respect to trade and commerce within the State . Article 286,  Article 286 is to put a restriction on the power of the 80 State Legislatures to make a law imposing tax on the sale or purchase of goods under entry 54 in the State List .  Lord Cairns and Lord Blackburn quoted with approval by Lord Blackburn in Arthur Hill v. The East and West India Dock Company . Lord Blackburn went on to add at page 458: "  Clause (1) (a) only contemplates one aspect of a sale or purchase, namely, its territorial location . It purports to remedy the particular evil of multiple taxation founded on  A sale or purchase is not, as I have said, the concern of clause (1) (a) or the Explanation . It is only when the question of the competency  All sales or purchases which take place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce are, by clause (2) of article 286, made immune from taxation by the law of any  Article 286(1) (b) of article 286 imposed a ban on the State Legislatures preventing them from impinging upon the field of foreign trade and imposing tax on sales or purchases  The State of Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Company Ltd. (1), this court has held that " Whatever else may or may not fall within article 286  The State Of 95 Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd. said the ban on sales or purchases of goods that take place during the period the goods  The purchase made by the exporter to implement his agreement for sale with the foreign buyer is to be regarded as having taken place "in the course of" export . The Attorney-General  High Court of Australia in The Queen v. Wilkinson: Ex parte Brazell, Garlick and Coy (1) to which reference may now be made. It was found that  In a joint judgment Dixon, McTierman, Fullager and Kitto, JJ. said:- 100 "In our opinion on the foregoing facts the disposal and the receiving made the  In most cases, however, the importers, in intelligent anticipation of local demands for such goods, place orders or indents with foreign sellers who, pursuant to such orders, send out  Article 286 (1)(b) postulates a transaction which takes place within the State and then places it beyond the taxing power of that State on the ground that the transaction, has taken  Parliament 14 106 Will make good the loss to the States on the recommendation of the Finance Commission under some appropriate article out of articles 268 to 281 grouped under the heading " Distribution of Reven  The respondents claim exemption from sales tax for the period between the 26th January, 1950, when the Constitution came into force and 29th May 1950, which close of the assessment year .  There is no dispute that the respondents do not sell the raw cashew-nuts or any portion of it within or without the State of Travancore . All edible kernels are exported  Travancore-Cochin says that purchases of this type did not fall within the Explanation they must be regarded as having taken place outside the State . Purchases of this  The respondents place orders for the purchase of raw cashew-nuts with commission agents in Bombay and the Bombay agents pass on the orders to the African sellers . African sellers send the goods by  The sale in such a case takes place in Travancore on the handing over of the delivery orders to the respective respondents and the delivery of the goods thereunder from the warehouse in 