 Preventive Detention Act (IV of 1950), s. 11 (1)--Con- firmation of detention order after report of Advisory Board--Period of further detention not specified--Per  The Bombay High Court delivered judgment as fol- lows: --This is an application under article 82 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of habeas corpus .  Shri Dattatreya Moreshwar Pangarkar was placed before the Advisory Board which has reported that there is sufficient cause for his detention . Government is accordingly pleased to confirm  Section 11 confers two powers, namely (1) the appropriate Government may confirm the detention order and continuing the detention for such period as it thinks fit . It is not necessary to include  Section 11 (1) authorises preventive detention for an indefinite period, contrary to the provisions of article 29\. (4) Sastri J., aS he then was, expressed  Section 13 of the Act gives power to the appropriate Government to revoke or amend a detention order . The specification of the period of detention does not destroy or abridge the wide over-all  Learned Attor- ney-General urges that section 11 (1) of the Act contem- plates only the taking of an executive decision, namely the confirmation of the detention order .  The validity of the detention of the petitioner has been challenged before us on a two-fold ground . Article 166 directs all execu- tive action to be expressed and authenticated in the  It is neither called upon nor is it compe- tent to say anything regarding the period for which such person should be detained . The words "for such period as it thinks fit" imply  An order for detention for an indefinite period is repugnant to all notions of democracy and individual liberty, but the indefi- niteness in the case of an order made under section  Section 11 (1) of the Preventive Detention Act does not contemplate the passing of a formal order . Section 13 of the Act empowers the de- taining authority to revoke or  The petitioners were informed through the District Magistrate that government had confirmed the deten- tion orders but they were not told for what period their detentions were to continue . The  Section 3, 9, 10, 11 and 13 of the Preventive Detention Act provide as follows: "In every case where a detention order has been made under this Act, the appropriate  The Constitution visualizes a period of detention initially for three months, which may subsequently be extended for a further period of time . The words "longer period than three months" do not  In S. Krishnan v. The State of Madras(2), the question of the validity of section 11 was again examined . The court took the view that the section was good  The contention that the Government need make no order at all under section 11 seems to me to be unsound . Section 3 provides for the making of an order of detention, while section 11  In sections 106 to 110 of this Part the language employed is "a person can be called upon to execute a bond for his good behaviour etc. for such period not exceeding one year or 