 The Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia College, Delhi was registered under the [Societies Registration Act, 1860]. The old Board was a corporation whose  Poona v. The Charity Commissioner of Bombay, (1960) 63 Bom.R. 379, approved. The impugned Act did not violate Arts. 14,19 or  Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights . Petition was filed on behalf of the Board of Trustees, Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbia  A struggle ensued between different groups of members for obtaining control of the Board and the college, and for possession of the Hindustani Dawakhana . After the passing of the impug  The Delhi State Legislature had no legislative power or competence to enact the impugned Act, which must on that ground be declared invalid and inoperative . The second ground proceeds on the footing  The old Board which was registered under the [Societies Registration Act, 1860] and is petitioner no. 1 before us, was a corporation whose objects were not confined to the State of  An essential element in the legal conception of a corporation is that its identity is continuous . In law the individual corporators, or members, of which it is composed are something wholly different from  There are no sufficient words to indicate an intention to incorporate, on the contrary, the Provisions show that there all absence of such intention . Section 6 gives the society the right to sue  A trade union which is registered under the Act must have a name . It may acquire property, but, not being incorporated, recourse is had to the old well-known machinery of trustees  Section 13 provides for dissolution of societies and adjustment of their affairs . It says in effect that on dissolution of a society necessary steps shall be taken for the disposal and settlement of the property of  The case arose in Servants of India Society, Poona v. the Charity Commissioner of Bombay . The case was brought before the High Court on appeal from the decision of the District  The emphasis would appear to be on the word unincorporated ' used in connection with "trading, literary, scientific, religious and other societies and associations". If an association or society  The impugned legislation still comes within entry 32 of List II . We have held that the old Board was not a corporation, even though it was registered under the Societies Registration Act  The Board of Trustees of the Ayurvedic and Unani Tibbi College, Delhi, a society registered under the provisions of the Registration of Societies Act, 1860, by  The courts should prima facie lean in favour of . Of constitutionality and should support the legislation if it is possible to . do so on any reasonable ground . To this the reply  It is necessary to ascertain the precise rights the members of the Board possessed to see whether the changes effected by the impugned Act amount to on infringement of their rights within the meaning of  The Sholapur Spinning & Weaving Co. Ltd was a preference shareholder who was called upon to pay Rs. 1,62,000/- in pursuance of the resolution  The Delhi State Legislature did not transgress any of the limitations placed on it, when it enacted the impugned legislation . This was a matter for the Legislature to consider and not for this  The Board of Trustees' property has been taken may without compensation and 195 handed over to a Board in contravention of Art. 31 of the Constitution . The Delhi legislature was not competent  The Board, as already stated, was registered under the [Societies Registration Act, 1860]. That was a law made by the Indian legislature under 24 & 25 Vict. ch. 67  The Governor General in Council was unhampered in the matter of making laws by any legislative lists and thus enjoyed plenary powers to make any kind of law on every conceivable topic which did  It is well settled that if in pith and substance it is found that the legislature could make that law under a particular entry, the mere fact that it incidentally trenches upou some other  The Delhi legislature had, therefore, competence to make a law dissolving a charitable trust and transferring its property, right etc., to another institution . The petitioner-Board upon Registration under the 