 1991 (3) SCC 655; 1991 JT 198; 1991 (2) SCALE 150 (25 July 1991) SHETTY, K.J. (J) (  The case was heard by a Full Bench of the High Court which dismissed the application by 2:1 majority; but granted a certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(  The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court . The President of India is the author  If the Chief Justice of India is of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned, the President shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge  The expression "public servant" as defined under s. 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 means a public servant as defined in s. 21, I.P.C.  The construction which would promote the general legislative purpose underlying the provision, is to be preferred to a construction that would not . The relationship of master and servant as is ordi- narily  The Supreme Court and High Courts have been constituted as Courts of Record with the power to punish for committing contempt as laid down by Articles 129 and 215 . The Executive is competent to appoint the  This Court is not a Court of limited jurisdiction of only dispute settling . It is expanding beyond dispute settling and interstitial law making . All that is required is to lay down certain guidelines lest  The society's demand for honesty in a Judge is exacting and absolute . A single dishonest judge dishonours himself and disgraces his office but jeopardises the integ- rity of the  The power to remove a High Court Judge from his office does exist and has to be exercised in appropriate circumstances according to the provisions of Article |24 of the Constitution . Such an inter-  Section 5(1)(e) does not contemplate a notice to be served on the accused . Section 6(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, is inapplic  There is no impediment in its applicability to the large number of public servants who have been dealt with thereunder ever since its enactment . The view that Judges of the High Courts and  The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment, is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court .  The Constitution could not have intended to place them on a pedestal higher than that of a Supreme Court Judge . No sanction for prosecution under s. 6 is re- quired after the  The Parliament did not enact any other law for the investigation into allegations of corruption against a superior Judge and for his trial and punishment for that offence . The Parliament has not as yet considered it  An attempt to bring Judges of the High Courts and the supreme Court within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act appears to be an exercise to fit a square peg in a round hole  A Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a High Court is a constitutional functionary appointed under Article 124 and under Article 217 of the Constitution re- spectively . The President is not  The President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or  It is essential that the judiciary must be free from executive pressure or influence . Constitution makers secured by making elaborate provisions in Constitution to which detailed reference has been made in the judgments in Sank  The Judge is made total- ly independent of the control and influence of the executive by mandatorily embodying in article 124 or article-217 that a Judge can only be removed from  The only question to be consid- ered is who will be the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge of the High Court under section 6(1)(c) of  No immunity from criminal prosecution has been provided for in the case of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court . The High Court should ensure modalities for launching prosecution against a  The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount  Appeal raises the questions of singular importance and consequence to Judges of the High Courts and this Apex Court . The trial of Criminal Case No. 46/77 filed by the Respondent be proceeded  The Full Bench of the High Court by majority view has dismissed his case . The High Court granted certificate for appeal to this Court in view of importance of the Constitu- tional questions  The learned Judge said that in view of Article 20(3) the Investigating Officer has no power to compel the accused to give his explanation for his dispro- portionate assets, but  Two other provisions are more material namely section 5 and section 6 and must be set out in full . A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct .  No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub-section (2) of section 5 of this Act  The power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction . Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the  The judges are not bound nor do they under-take to obey any order of the Government within the scope of their duties . Judges are not Judges if they allow themselves to be guided by  The Santhanam Committee collected a lot of material from the public relating to the nature of corruption in the administration . It was represented to the public that corruption has increased to such an extent  The High Court Judge retires at 62, the Supreme Court Judge at 65 . They are liable to be removed for proved misbehaviour or incapacity . The power to remove them is  The power to remove a Judge is vested in the two Houses of Parliament and the President . But Parliament, counsel for the appellant contended, cannot be the sanctioning authority for the prosecution of  The apparent policy of the legislation is to insure a clean public administration by weeding out corrupt officials . The Preamble of the Act indicates that the Act was intended to prevent more eff  The order of the President is sine qua non for removal of a Judge . Clause (4) of Article 124 mandates that a Judge shall not be removed from his office except by  The power to give sanction for prosecution can be con- ferred on any authority . The President exercises this power with the aid and advice of his Council of Minis- ters .  There are various protections afforded to Judges to preserve the independence of the judiciary . Judges are liable to be dealt with just the same way as any other person in respect of criminal offence .  There is no criminal sanction which is specifical- ly applicable only to judicial behaviour . Judges are included in those criminal provisions which apply to public servants . Even crimes which are of more  The Chief Justice of India is not kept out of the picture of any criminal case contemplated against a Judge . Even for trans- fer of a Judge from one High Court to another the Chief  Section 5(1) of the Act, as originally stood, provides in the four clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) the acts or omissions of  The terms of clause (e) indicates that the principle underlying section 5(3) appears to have been elevated to a substantive offence in somewhat different words . In Maharashtra v.K.  The ingredients of the offence of criminal misconduct are the possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to the known sources of income for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account .  There is no law prohibiting a public servant having in his posses- sion assets disproportionate to his known sources of income . Such a statute placing burden on the accused cannot be regarded as  A single dishonest judge dishonours himself and disgraces his office but jeopardizes the integrity of the entire judicial system . A judicial scandal has always been regarded as far more deplorable than a  J. Justice Verma agrees with Mr Justice Ray and Mr. Justice Shetty that the appeal should be dismissed . J. Verma: The expression "public servant" used in the  The administration of justice and the confidence of the people in the courts are equally essential . It is to achieve this end that the higher judiciary has been vested with the power to punish for its  Section 2 of the Act adopts the definition of "public servant" as given in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, which includes "Every Judge" If legislature had intended to exclude  The question is as to what is the protection available under the law as it exists today, to the judiciary of the country . Section 6 of the Act provides for previous sanc- tion  K. Veeraswami, a former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Proce- dure, 1973  Several arguments including the allegation of mala fides against the Central Government were advanced in the High Court on behalf of the appellant . Shri Kapil Sibal argued that the Judges of  The main point for consideration is whether the Chief Justices and puisne Judges of the High Courts are within the purview of the Act . If the answer is in the affirmative,  The definition of 'public servant' given in the Act includes 'every Judge' The only question which now arises is whether this piece of legislation also applies to certain constitutional functionaries such as  A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other  No power under this sub-section in relation to the accounts of any person shall be exercised by a police officer below the rank of Superintendent of Police, unless he is specially authorised by a  The President, or the Governor or 281 Rajpramukh of a State, shall not be answerable to any court for the exercise and performance of the powers and duties of his  The Chief Justice of India in consulta- tion with the Chief Justices 283 of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption among the judiciary . The Committee  Constitution Bench in R.S.Nayak v. A.R. Antulay, [[1984] 2 SCC 183] argued that no sanction under Section 6 of the  Section 6 requires a sanction before taking cognizance of offences committed by public servant . The holding of the office which gives an opportunity to use it for corrupt motives is directly attributable and flows  Section 6 applies only in cases where there is a vertical hierarchy of public offices and the public servant against whom sanction is sought is under the sanctioning authority . The decisions of this Court have  According to Article 124(4), a Judge can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by the pre-scribed  The question relates to the continuance of a high constitutional functionary like the Additional Judge of High Court . It would be jeopardising his security and judicial inde- pendence if action  Clause (5) of Article 124 enables enactment of a special law by the Parliament to regulate the procedure for presentation of an address and for the 'investigation' and 'proof'  The Santhanam Commit- tee Report did not consider the judiciary within its purview and it merely made recommendations to devise a machinery involving the Chief Justice of India to deal with the cases  Clause (e) has to be given some meaning which would place burden on prosecution to make out prima facie case for sanction of the competent authority under Section 6 of the Act .  The need for sanction under Section 6 for prosecution of the holder of a public office indicates the ambit and scope of the enactment . The provision for sanction is like the keystone in the  The remedy is not to extend the existing law and make it workable by reading into it certain guidelines for which there is no basis in it, since the Act was not intended to apply  The Parliament has not as yet considered it expedient to enact any such law for the trial and punishment on the charge of corruption of a superior Judge, except by his removal from office .  The confidence reposed in them by the framers of the Constitution has been betrayed to this extent . Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are outside the purview of the Prevention  The High Courts, the Federal Court and the Supreme Court should not be considered a part of, or working under, any department of the executive Government of India . Sardar Vallabh  Appeal dismissed by majority of High Courts and Supreme Court . 