 1976 AIR 1976 SC 1207; 1976 SCR 172; 1976 (2) SCC 521 (28 April 1976) RAY, A.N. (CJ) R  The President of India, by proclamation dated December 23, 1971 declared that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of India is threatened by external aggression . The Maintenance of Internal Security Act (Act  The right of any person (including a foreigner) to move any court for the enforcement of the rights conferred by Articles 14 21 and 22 of the Constitution and all proceedings pending in any court  The High Courts of Allahabad, Bombay (Nagpur Bench), Delhi Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana respectively. challenged the validity of the Thirty-eight  The Executive can take action which The Executive is competent to take under such laws . While a proclamation of emergency is in operation the Presidential order under Art.359(1) can suspend the  No amendment to the Constitution is necessary because no jurisdiction and power either of this Court or of the High Court is taken away . Article 359(1) is not directed against any court,  The negative language of Fundamental Right incorporated in Part III imposes limitations on the power of the State . The limitation of State action embodied in a Fundamental Right is the measure of the protection of the  It is 179 incorrect to say that "State" in Art. 12 will also include the Judiciary . Articles 256, 265 and 361 have no relevance to displace the proposition that Art  The President's order under Art. 359(1) is not a law . The contention that permanent law cannot be repealed by temporary law is misplaced . The suspension of any Fundamental Right does  Section 18 of [Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971] is only an illustration of the Act by the officers authorised by the Act . Section 18 applies to all orders of detention .  The only Rule of Law which can be recognised by courts of our country is what is deducible from our Constitution . Article 226 of the Constitution is not meant for futile and unen  The scope for judicial law making on the subject of enforcement of the right to personal freedom was deliberately restricted by our Constitution makers . It is difficult to see any such scope when enforcement itself is  Article 21 has to be interpreted comprehensively enough to include practically all aspects of personal freedom . Article 22 merely makes it clear that deprivations of liberty by means of laws regulating preventive detention  All aspects of freedom of person are meant to be covered by Articles 19, 21, and 22 of the Constitution . The power to issue a writ is conferred upon courts exclusively by our Constitution  The remedy by way of a writ of habeas corpus is more general than relief against official action . It lies even against illegal detentions by private persons although not under Art.  Presidential order of 1962 did not specify Article 14 of the Constitution, but Art. 14, guaranteeing equality before the law and equal protection of laws to all persons in India, is mentioned in  The rule pre-supposes the existence of a fixed or identifiable rule of law which the executive has to follow, and the power of the courts to test the action by reference to the  It is very difficult to see the bearing of any such doctrine that the Rule of Law under our Constitution is embodied in the principle of Separation of Powers on a pure and simple question of  The contention that s. 16A(9) affects the jurisdiction of High Courts under Art. 226 is untenable . It is clear that the validity of the amendment cannot be challenged on  No question of "malice in law" can arise in habeas corpus proceedings when such a protection is suspended . The theory of basic structure of the constitution cannot be used to build  Habeas corpus petitions are not maintainable, in such cases since the prisoner is deemed to be in proper custody under orders of a court . Neither Article 136 nor Art 226 of the  The "clear and present danger test" evolved by Justice Holmes in Schenck v. United States, [249 U.S. 1919] may well be extended to cases where there  The argument of basic feature is wrong for yet another reason that Art. 359(1) does 'not provide that the Executive is free to disobey the laws made by the Legislature'  Article 359(1) enables the President to suspend the enforcement even of the right which were sanctified by being lifted out of the common morass of human rights . The words "con  A failure to comply with Article 256 may attract serious consequences but no court is likely to entertain a grievance at the instance of a private party that Art. 256 has not been complied with by  Section 16A(9) is not unconstitutional on the ground that it constitutions an encroachment on the writ jurisdiction of the High Court and Art. 226 . Section 18 does not suffer  Presidential order dated June 27, 1975 bars maintainability of a petition for a writ of habes corpus when an order of detention is challenged on the ground that it is vitiated by  The words "rights, conferred by Part III" cannot be read in isolation nor can they be construed by reference to theoretical or doctrinaire considerations . Article 21 confers the Fundamental Right  "Law" within the meaning of Art. 21 must be a valid law and' not only must be within the legislative competence of the legislature enacting it, but it must also not  The President may by order under Art. 359, clause (1) suspend its enforcement, that right of personal liberty based on the Rule of Law cannot continue to exist as a distinct and  The words 'any court in Article 21 must be given their plain grammatical meaning and must be construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction which would include the Supreme Court and the High Courts  An application seeking to enforce a statutory obligation imposed on the police officer and a statutory right created in favour of an arrested person by s. 57 of the Criminal Procedure Code would not be barred  There are two rights which the detenu has in this connection: one is the Fundamental Right conferred by Art.22, clause (5) and the other is the statutory right conferred  Sub-section (9)(a) of s. 16A is in form and outward appearance a rules of evidence which says that the grounds, information and materials on which the order of  Sub-s. (9) (a) of s. 16A enacts a genuine rule of evidence and it does not detract from or affect the jurisdiction of the High Court-  Article 21 incorporates an essential aspect of that principle and makes it part of the Fundamental Rights guaranteed in part III of the Constitution . It does not, however, follow from the above that if  The principle that no one shall be deprived of his life or liberty without the authority of law stems from the basic assumption in every civilised society governed by the Rule of Law of the sanct  The court should lean in favour of adopting such construction as would make provisions of the municipal law to the in harmony with the international law or treaty obligations . The rule of law has come to  The difference in phraseology of the Presidential order dated June 27, 1975 and that of the earlier Presidential orders would not justify the Conclusion that because of the new Presidential order, a detention order  The word competent has a significance and it is apparent that despite the Presidential order under Art. 359(1) in the case of executive action the competence of the State to take such action  No power has been conferred upon any authority in the Constitution for suspending the power of the High Court to issue writs in the nature of habeas corpus during the period of emergency .  There is no antithesis between the power of the State to detain a person without trial under a law or preventive detention . The courts cannot sit as a court of appeal and substitute their own  The appropriate occasion for the High Court to go into the constitutional validity of s 16A(9) of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act would be when the State or a detenu  There is no sufficient ground to interfere with the view taken by all the nine High Courts which went into the matter that the Presidential order dated June 27, 1975, did not affect the maintain  For the applicant/lnterveners: Smt. Manek Ben M/s. S. Venkataswami, C. C. Dwivedi, S.  The respondents filed applications in different High Courts for the issue of writ of habeas corpus . They challenged in some cases the validity of the 38th and the 39th Constitution Amendment Acts  The High Courts did not decide about the validity of the 38th and the 39th Constitution Amendment Acts . High Courts held that the, High Courts could not go into the questions whether the  The validity of law cannot be challenged on the ground of infringing a fundamental right mentioned in the Presidential Order under Article 359(1) . The reason given by the Attorney General is that in  The High Court has jurisdiction to issue a writ af haheas corpus for the enforcement of the principle of ultra vire.;. vires . In The King v Hallday Ex  Habeas Corpus Suspension Act may prevent the person arrested from taking at the moment any proceeding against the Secretary of State . While the suspension lasts, he will not be able to get  The pre-eminent questions are four: Is the Presidential order under Article 359 a bar at the threshold? Second, is Article 21 the sole repository of right to the and personal liberty  It is wrong to say that the Executive has asked or directed any one not to comply with the conditions of the Act . The courts interpret the Constitution and the laws in accordance with law and  Article 250 provides that during the operation of Proclamation of Emergency Parliament may make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State list . The Federal Structure and representative government may  Court in Makhan Singh's case (supra) said that if there was challenge to the validity of the detention order based on any right other than those mentioned in the Presidential order that  Attorney General says the legal enforceable right to personal liberty for violation thereof by the Executive is a fundamental right conferred by the Constitution and is embodied in Article 21 . Apart from Article 21 the  Our Constitution confers fundamental rights in positive as well as in negative language . Article 21 is our Rule of Law regarding life and liberty . Article 31(1) subordinate the exercise of the  The common law of Torts prevailed in India before the Constitution on the basis of justice, equity and good conscience . There was no civil remedy for unlawful infringement of the right to personal liberty  A law depriving a person of personal liberty must be a substantive and procedural law authorising such deprivation . The makers of the Constitution had the Criminal Procedure Code in mind .  Article 256 do. not confer any right on any person . Article 265 has nothing to do with right to personal liberty . Article 361 (3) refers to the issue of a process from  The Government of India Act was held to be beyond question in view of Article 31-B which had been inserted in the Constitution by the First Amendment and the Act being mentioned as Item 4  The Rule of Law is not a law of nature consistent and invariable at all times and in all circumstances . It expresses an ideal as much as a juristic fact . The right to  Article 358 permits an Executive action under a law which may violate Article 19 but if the law is void or if there be no law at all, the Executive action will not be protected by  Presidential order is of a higher import than suspension of any law because the remedy for the enforcement of fundamental rights is barred for the time being because of grave emergency . The respondents contend that if  The Bombay High Court (Nagpur Bench) has read down section 16A(9) of the Act . Section 18 applies to any person in respect of whom an order as been  Section 16A(9) of the Act forbids disclosure of grounds and information in possession of the detaining authority . The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court read down section 16A  The detaining authority is bound by section 16A(9) and forbidden absolutely from disclosing such material no question can arise for adverse inference against the authority . The court cannot insist on the  It is not competent for the court to decide whether the impugned order of detention under section 3(1) or the declaration under section 16A(2) and (3)  In Lawrence Joachim Joseph D'Souza's case (supra) malafide exercise of power was untenable having regard to the grounds on which detention was based .  A. K'opalan's (1) was he first case where in a Bench of six Judges of this Court dealt with the matter . Another Bench of seven Judges again dealt with  Clause (1) of article 352 of the Constitution reads as under: "Where a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation, the President may by order declare that the right to move any  On June 25, 1975 the President of India issued another proclamation of emergency and the same reads as under: "A grave emergency exists whereby the security of India is threatened by internal disturbance"  Act 39 of 1975 inserted section 18 with effect from June 25, 1975 . No person (including a foreigner) detained under this Act shall have any right to personal liberty by virtue of natural  The Constitution (Thirty ninth Amendment) Act, 1975 was published on August 10, 1975 and inserted the [Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971] as item 92 in the Ninth Schedule  On November 16, 1975 ordinance 22 of 1975 was issued making certain amendments in MISA . By section 2 of the ordinance the words "twelve days" and "twenty days"  In section 18 of the principal Act, for the words 'detained under this Act', the words and 'in respect to an order is made or purported to be made under section 3  High Courts held that despite the said Presidential order the petitions were maintainable and could be proceeded with . The High Courts were not unanimous on the point as to whether the High Courts should examine  Presidential order of 1962 under article 359(1) of the Constitution suspended was the right of any person to move any court for the enforcement of rights conferred by articles 14, 21 and 22  The President's order was a conditional one . In effect it said that the right to move the High Court or Supreme Court remained suspended if such a person had been deprived of his personal liberty  Presidential order dated June 27, 1975 seeks to impose a blanket suspension of the right of any person, including a foreigner, to move any court far the enforcement of the rights conferred by articles  The right to move any court for the enforcement of the right conferred by article 21 is suspended, no relief can be granted to the petitioner in such petition . The concept of expression "due  The right to life and personal liberty is the most precious right of human beings in civilised societies governed by the rule of law . Article 21 cannot be considered to be the sole repository of  The Declaration of Delhi, 1959, was based on a questionnaire circulated to 75,000 lawyers . Rule of law is now the accepted norm of all civilised societies .  Government under the law means the power to govern shall be exercised only under conditions laid down in constitutions and laws approved by either the people or their representatives . Law emerges as a norm limiting  The principle that no one shall be deprived of his life or liberty without the authority of law is rooted in the consideration that life and liberty are priceless possessions which cannot be made the plaything  The right not to be deprived of one's life or liberty without the authority of law was not the creation of the Constitution . Such right existed before the Constitution came into force . The fram  The principle that no one shall be deprived of his life or liberty without the authority of law stems from the fact that under our penal laws no one is empowered to deprive a person of his  The High Courts were vested with the power of issuing writs of habeas corpus under article 226 . Article 226 was made a part of the Constitution and the remedy of writ of ha  The right to move a court for enforcement of a right under article 19 has now been suspended by the President under an order issued under article 359(1). The effect of that, on  Sikri CJ. CJ. says rule of law requires proper legal limits on the exercise of power . Rule of law must first be approved by Parliament, and must then be granted by Parliament  An essential attribute of the rule of law is that executive action to the prejudice of or detrimental to the right of an individual must have the sanction of some law . H.W. Jones  The question arose for decision before this Court was whether the order was protected under articles 358 and 359 because of the declaration of state of emergency by the president . We have adopted under our Constitution  The rule of law may be said to be sworn enemy of caprice. It must be governed by rule, not by humour: It must not be, value, value and value .  The power of the courts to grant relief against arbitrariness or absence of authority of law in the matter of the liberty of the subject may now well be taken to be a normal feature  The only effect of that clause is that during the period of emergency the restriction placed upon the competence by fundamental rights would not be there . But it would still be necessary to establish the competence  The President has no power to suspend the right to move any court for the enforcement of rights which are not fundamental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution . Rights created by statutes are not  The presence of legal sanctions distinguishes positive law from other systems of rules and norms . To be a legal system a set of norms must furnish sanctions for some of its precepts . Non-  Our founding fathers made article 226 which confers power on the High Court to issue inter alia writs in the nature of habeas corpus an integral part of the Constitution . The  The great writ of habeas corpus has been for centuries esteemed the best and sufficient defence of personal freedom . The power of the High Court to enquire in proceedings for a writ of  More is at stake in these cases than the liberty of a few individuals or the correct construction of the wording of are order . It is obvious that the acceptance of the contention would result in  The fact that the nation is at war is no justification for any relaxation of the vigilance of the Courts in seeing that the law is duly observed, especially in a matter so fundamental as the  According to section 3(1) of MISA, the authorities may if satisfied with respect to any person (including a foreigner) that with a view to preventing him from acting in any  In a petition for a writ of habeas corpus the courts do not normally question the veracity and sufficiency of the material on the basis of which the authority concerned arrives at the  The past conduct or antecedent history of a person can be taken into account in making a detention order . The nature of the activity would have also a bearing in deciding the question of  It is imperative that there should be strict compliance with the requirements of those procedural safeguards to sustain the validity of detention . Detention without trial results in serious inroads into personal liberty of an individual  The initial burden is on the detenu to show that at his detention is mala fide or not in accordance with law . The burden shifts on the State and it becomes essential for  Sub-section (8) authorises the Central Government to require the State Government to furnish the information arid materials on the basis of which declaration has been made or confirmed or not revoked  There is no appeal before us by the detenu- respondents. This Court in appeal by the State cannot enlarge the area of the unfavourable decision qua the State and make  In the absence of article 21 in the Constitution, the State has got no power to deprive a person of his life or personal liberty without the authority of law . Article 226 under which the  It would not be permissible or proper for this Court to short circuit the whole thing and decide the matter by by-passing the High Courts . Unanimity obtained without sacrifice of conviction  Would a detention order, by any Government servant without even an ostensible or purported statutory authority to support it, not stand on the same footing as a detention by a private person? Would  The "Rule of Law" has been described as the "ancient writ of habeas Corpus" from which it has been taken and transplanted into our Constitution . Ivor Jennings  Dicey distinguished this peculiarly British Constitutional Law from "political ethics" which, according to him, was "mis-called Constitution Law" He said that the Rule of law and the  Dicey thought that the difference between the unwritten British Constitution and a written Constituion, such as that of Belgium, was not merely a formal one, but revealed entirely differing approaches  Dicey indicated the difference in sources and forms of rules made a great difference in approach and outlook . Dicey treated the judge-made Rule of Law and the rights "guaranteed  It seems to be legally quite impossible to successfully appeal to some spirit of the Constitution or to any law anterior to or supposed to lie behind the Constitution to frustrate the objects of the express  The Attorney General has, very fairly and rightly, repeatedly pointed out that no substantive right, whether declared fundamental or not, could be suspended . Even the enforcement in general of an such rights  It seems to be impossible to lay down that it becomes enforceable when that part of the procedure which is mandatory is violated but remains unenforceable so long as the part of it  It is not possible for a detenue to fan back upon the last part of Article 226 of the Constitution which enables the use of powers given by this Article "for any other purpose  The language of the preamble to the Constitution recites that it is they who were establishing the legally Sovereign Democratic Republic with the objects given there . Some rights are "conferred"  The origin of Common Law in England is to be found in the work done by the King's Judges, who, through their judicial pronouncements, gave to the people of that country a  Article 21 was only meant, on the face of it, to keep the exercise of executive powers in ordering deprevations of life or liberty within the bounds of power prescribed by procedure established  A.K. Gopalan's case was cited in Cooper v, Union of India, for illustrating a line of reasoning which was held to be incorrect in determining the validity of "  The religion of Natural Law has its illustrious Priestly Heads such as Chrysippus, Cicero, Seneca, St. Louis, Hobbes, Locke, Paine, Hamilton,  The Indian Supreme Court heard arguments that we should read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into our Constitution as India was one of the signatories to it . Nothing which conflicts with the provisions of  The right to live, though the most fundamental of all, is also one of the most difficult to define and its protection generally takes the form of a declaration that no person shall be deprived  In Kharak Singh v. the State of U.P. & Ors, the wide import of personal liberty, guaranteed by Article 21, was considered . By a majority of 4  The writ of habeas corpus and subjiciendum is a prerogative process for securing the liberty of" the subject by affording an effective means of immediate release from unlawful  The right to enforce personal freedom through a writ of habeas corps is suspended, it cannot be said that the enforcement can be restored by resorting to "any other purpose" The  The question arose: Did this practice not frustrate the purposes of the Act ? The position of the detenu has generally evoked the sympathy of lawyers and law Courts . The possibility  It was held that even if a single non-existent or vague ground crept into The grounds for detention, the detention order itself was vitiated . Courts could not separate what has been  It appears to me that the object of the above mentioned amendments was to affect the manner in which jurisdiction of Courts in considering claims for reliefs by detenus on petitions for writs  The issue that the detention order is vitiated by "malice in fact" will not be justiciable in Habeas Corpus proceedings during the Emergency although it may be in  The general power to issue writs of habeas Corpus is not suspended, this feature was, quite rightly, I respectfully think, pointed out by this Court in Mohan Chowdh  Court must presume that executive authorities are acting in conformity with both the spirit and the substance of the law: "omina praesumutur rite esse acts"  In Liversidge's case (supra), the Court's power to inquire into the correctness of the belief of the Secretary of State was itself held to be barred merely by the terms  Section 18 of the Act 39 of 1975 was added to the Act with effect from 25th June 1975 . This provision reads: "No person (including a foreigner) detained under this Act  In Liversidge v. Sir John Anderson (supra) the following passages from Rex v. Halliday were cited by Lord Romer to justify principles adopted by four out five of  The Habeas Corpus Act was suspended after the American War and the Jacobite conspiracy of 1722 and the invasion of the realm by the Pretender in 1745 . For nearly half  In times of emergency, the ordinary functions of Courts, and, in particular, powers of issuing writs of Habeas Corpus, have been curtailed . During the first world war  These provisions enable the Union Govt. to supersede both the legislative and executive wings of Government in a State in the event of a failure of Constitutional machinery in that State . They are  Presidential order of 27th June, 1975, runs as follows:"In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 359 of the Constitution, the President hereby declares that  Presidential order of 1962 did not specify Article 14 of the Constitution, but Article 14, guaranteeing equality before the law and equal protection of laws to all persons in India, is mentioned in the  The term Rule of Law is not a magic wand which can be waved to dispel every difficultly . It can only mean what the law in a particular State or country is and what it  A seven Judge bench of this Court pointed out that, whereas Article 358, by its own force, suspends the guarantees of Article 19, Article 359(1) has the effect of  No attack on validity of Defence of India Act of 1962 and Rules framed thereunder, on the ground of violation of fundamental rights, was open during the emergency, no petition was maintainable  The suspension of enforcement of specified fundamental rights operates only to protect infringements of rights by the State and its authorised agents . A claim to an order of release from such a patently illegal  In Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar v. Bihar & ors.,(1) this Court did, in a petition under Article 32 of the  Dr. Lohia's case was different from the law we have to apply under a different set of circumstances as explained above . I do not know how any decision could have been given  The Indian Constitution does not contemplate assumptions, by one organ or part of the State, of functions that essentially belong to another . The executive can exercise the powers of departmental or subordinate legislation  Dean Pound divides justice itself into three heads according to the three types of bodies or authorities which could administer it . He discusses the advantages and disadvantages of each: Legislative, Executive, Judicial .  The machinery of executive justice, though not hide- bound by technical rules of evidence and procedure, can also be and often is dilatory . It is for this reason that Article 226 of  Section 14 of the Act provides for revocation of detention orders without prejudice to the provisions of Section 21 of the [General Clauses Act, 1897]. The power of revocation may be exercised not  Liversidge's case was not a decision upon a habeas corpus proceeding, but, it came to the House of Lords at an interlocutory stage of a suit for damages  No question of "malice in law' can arise in Habeas Corpus proceedings when such a protection is suspended . Article 34 of the Constitution recognises the possibility of Martial Law in  It is clear that so-called military courts set up under martial law are not really courts at all . The correct view to take of' martial law itself is that it is no law  The real question for determination by us relates only to the meaning and effect of the Constitutional and statutory provisions indicated above which are applicable during the current Emergency . The case for the detenus  Part XVIII of the Constitution, called "Emergency provisions", consists of Articles 352 to 360 . A Proclamation of Emergency may be made before the actual occurrence of war or of external aggression  Defence of India Act, 1962 was to remain in force during the period of operation of the Proclamation of Emergency issued on October 26, 1962 and for a period of six months thereafter .  Various persons detained under section 3(1) of the MISA filed petitions in different High Courts for the issue of the writ of Habeas Groups . The Government raised a preliminary objection  If the MISA permits the non-disclosure of grounds and indeed prevents their disclosure, there is no question of the reasons or grounds of detention and courts must accept at its face value  The suspension of the right to enforce Article 21 does not mean the suspension of rule of law . Common law rights as well as statutory rights to personal liberty can be enforced through writ petitions filed  The facts and circumstances leading to the declaration of emergency are and can only be known to the Executive, particularly when an emergency can be declared, as provided in Article 352(3), before  The writ of habeas corpus is described by May in his 'Constitutional History of England' as the first security of civil liberty . The Latin term "habeas corpus" means  E.C. Wade and Godfrey Phillips observe in their Constitutional Law that in times of grave national emergency, normal constitutional principles must give way of the overriding need to deal with the emergency  A unanimous court upheld Schenck's conviction under the Sedition Act for propagating that compulsory service in the Armed Forces was "a monstrous wrong against humanity in the interest of Wall Street  Article 359(1) provides for the passing of an order by the President declaring that the right to move for the enforcing of fundamental rights mentioned in the order shall be suspended . Article 359  Article 359 (1) is wider in scope than Art. 358 . It was necessary further to provide that no person would have any right to move for the enforcement of his fundamental rights mentioned  Article 359(1) does not provide that the Executive is free to disobey the laws made by the Legislature . The Constitution requires the Executive to obey the laws, therefore, Article 359  The rule of law must prevail in normal times, the Indian Constitution says . Article 358 enables the Legislature to make laws in violation of Article 19 and the Executive to act under those laws .  Article 358 lifts restrictions on legislative power "while a proclamation of Emergency is in operation" that is to say, it enables laws to be made during the emergency, ever if they conflict with  The Court emphatically rejected the notion of inherent or autonomous law-making power in the executive administration of the country . The rule of law, during an emergency, is as one finds it in  Article 21 is not the sole repository of the right to life and personal liberty . The pre-Constitution common law and statutory rights to personal liberty continued in force by reason of Article 372  A person affected by the violation of this provision can enforce his right to property even if Article 19 is suspended . Even after the passing of a Presidential order, Parliament may create new rights to  Article 359(1) enables the President to suspend the enforcement even of those rights which were sanctified by being lifted out of the common morass of human rights . Article 359 (1  The true effect of the Presidential order, though worded in the way it is, is the same as it would have been, had it been worded differently . It does not make  When an accused challenges his conviction for murder and the sentence of death imposed on him for that offence, his remedy by way of an appeal is not barred by the Presidential order because he is  The High Court held that in view of the Presidential order which was issued on November 3, 1962 under Art. 359(1) of the Constitution, the petitions of habeas corpus  Subha Rao J. held that the petitioners' right to ask for relief by filing an application under section 491 was not affected by the Presidential order . The majority took the view  The order dated November 3, 1962, which was the subject matter of Makhan Singh's case, has been set out at the beginning of this judgment . That order suspends the right  A petition for habeas corpus file(l) during the operation of the Presidential order dated November 3, 1962 was not barred at the threshold because the detenu was entitled to  Makhan Singh's case arose out of the first Presidential order dated November 3, 1962 . Another case arose under rule 30(l)(b) of the Defence of India Rules, 1962  Makhan Singh's case as also Jaichand Lall Sethia's and Durgadas Shirali's arose under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 . The relevant Presidential order which  Section 16A(9) is in aid of the constitutional power conferred by Article 359(1) and further effectuates the purpose of the Presidential order issued under that Article . Section 16  Section 123 gives the necessary discretion to the Head of the Department concerned . By reason of section 124, the High Court cannot compel any public officer to disclose communications made to him in official confidence  The High Court, at the highest, could satisfy its curiosity by tasting the forbidden fruit but its secret scrutiny of the grounds and of the file containing the relevant information and material cannot enter into  Presidential order deprives a person of his locus standi to move any court, be it the Supreme Court or the High Court, for the enforcement of his fundamental rights which are mentioned  The High Courts of Allahabad, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka and Rajasthan and the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court heard on the preliminary  There are three types of crisis in the life of a democratic nation, three well defined threats to its existence . The first of these is war, particularly a war to repel invasion when  An economic crisis is as direct a threat to a nation's continuing constitutional existence as a war or internal subversion . Crisis government means strong and arbitrary government . The writ of habeas  The right to habeas corpus is not expressly declared in the Constitution, but it is recognised in Article I, Placitum 9, clause (2) of the Constitution .  Congress has the power to suspend the writ of habeas corpus and this power has been exercised in the past, though very sparingly . This of course has had the effect of arming  Two Articles, Article 358 and Article 359 set out certain important consequences of Proclamation of Emergency . While a Proclamation is in operation nothing in article 19 shall restrict the power of the State  The President issued another order dated 8th January, 1976 under clause (1) of Article 359 suspending the enforcement of the rights conferred by Article 19 . The State Governments and the Union of  This obligation of the executive not to act to the detriment of a person without the authority of law can be enforced under Article 226 by issue of a writ "for any other purpose" The  President may suspend the right to move any court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the order . Clause (1A) of Art.  Clause does not operate to validate a legislative provision or executive action which was invalid because of the constitutional inhibition before the Proclamation of Emergency . The words "but for the provisions contained in Part  The State Government sought to meet the challenge by pleading the bar of Article 358\. But this Court held that Article 358 had no application because sub-section (1) of section 3 of  This Court said to the same effect in Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India(3): "If it can be shown that the executive action taken during  It is axiomatic that to confer a right it is not necessary to use any particular form of language . It is not uncommon in legislative practice to use negative language for conferring a  Part Ill of the Constitution weaves a pattern of guarantees on the texture of basic human rights." This statement of the law establishes clearly and without doubts that Article 21 confers the fundamental right  The word 'law' as used in this Article came to be considered by this Court in A. K. Gopalan v. State of Madras(2) and it was  The safeguards of Article 21, substantive as well as procedural, have to be complied with in order that there should be no infraction of the right conferred by that Article . S. R  The Great Charter of Liberties of England, commonly known as the Magna Carta, was granted under the seal of King John in the mee of Runnymede on 15th  Blackstone in his Commentaries on the Laws of England, vol. 1, 4th ed. p. 105 stated the principle in these terms: The law of England regards, asserts  Even before the Constitution, the principle of rule of law that the executive cannot act to the prejudice of a person without the authority of law was recognised as part of the law of the land  Article 21, Article 31, clause (1) and Article 265 embody different aspects of the principle of rule of law . It is difficult to comprehend how it could continue in force under Article  Under our Constitution, the executive is bound to act in accordance with law and cannot disobey it . This obligation arises from the doctrine of distribution of powers amongst different bodies created by the Constitution  There is no Martial law any where in the territory of India at present . Martial law means that the executive calls the military to its aid and the military proceeds to quell violence by violence  The only provision in the constitution authorises temporary suspension or taking away of the right of an individual to move any court for enforcement of his right to life and liberty is Article 359, clause  Lord Atkinson quoted with approval the following pregnant passage A from the judgment of the Master of the Rolls in the same case . Lord Atkinson said the question posed by the Maqster of the  The petitioner relied on the words " is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any rights conferred by any provisions" of Part III of the Constitution . The contention of the petitioner was neg  The petitioners were detained in Arbour Hill Military Detention Barracks awaiting trial on a charge of murder before a Military Court established under Emergency Powers (No. 41) order, 1940 .  Article 28, section 3, sub-section (3) of The Constitution provided: "Nothing in this Constitution shall be invoked to invalidate any law enacted by the Oireachtas  The High Court held that the Emergency Powers (No. 41-F) Order" 1941 was immune from challenge by reason of Article 28, section 3, sub- section (3)  The income-tax authorities have by an executive order, unsupported by (1) [1156] S. C. R. 267.452 law, picked out this petitioner and transferred  Makhan Singh v. State of Punjab (Supra) was a decision given in a batch of twenty-six appeals from the High Courts of Bombay and Punjab . The appellants in  Majority judgment held that petitions under s. 491(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure were not maintainable . The only ground on which they challenged the orders of detention  Questions to what were the other pleas available to a detenu in challenging the legality or propriety of his detention was not in issue before the Court and did not fall to be decided  There is a vital difference ill effect between the Presidential order dated 3rd November, 1962 and the present Presidential order . The President deliberately and advisedly departed from the earlier precedent and (1  The conditional nature of the Presidential order was also stressed by this Court in State of Maharashtra v Prabhakar Pandurang Sangzgiri . It was then contended on behalf of  There is no legislation in which country which confers the right of personal liberty by providing that there shall be no deprivation of it except in accordance with law . The remedy of habeas  Court to do is to examine whether the executive has carried out the obligation imposed upon it by Article 21 not to deprive a person of his persona] liberty except according to the procedure prescribed by  Presidential order would have no operation where a detenu is relying upon a provision of law to enforce a legal right conferred on him and is not complaining of absence of legal authority in the  The 'theory of reflection' which found favour with the Kerala High Court in Fathima Beebi v. M. K. Ravindranathan(l) is clearly  All power is likely to be abused, it is no ground for denying the existence of the power . The wisdom of man has not yet been able to conceive of a government with power sufficient  The Constitution is the paramount and supreme law of the land and if it says that even if a person is detained otherwise than in accordance with the law, he shall not be entitled to enforce  This Court has consistently shown great anxiety for personal liberty and refused to throw out a petition merely on the ground that it does not disclose a prima facie case invalidating The order of  The only question is: how far and to what extent sub-section (9) (a) of section 16A has encroached upon judicial scrutiny and whether it is a valid piece  Article 226 is a constitutional pro vision and it empowers the High Court to issue a writ of habeas corpus for enforcement of the fundamental right conferred by Article 21 . The High Court  In re: The Kerala Education Bill, 1957(4) said in relation to Article 226 that "No enactment of a State legislature can take away or abridge the jurisdiction and power conferred  The Court prevented (except for the purpose of punishment for such disclosure) from being informed of the substance of the grounds conveyed to the detained person under section 7 on which the order was made  The proviso to section 8 of the Preventive Detention Act was violative of section 103 . It debarred the High Court and this Court from calling for the grounds of detention .  Sub-section (9)(a) of section 16A is a provision enacted to meet the emergency declared under the Proclamations dated 3rd December, 1971 and 25th June  Viscount Maugham said at page 221 of the Report that in many cases he will be acting 476 on information of the most confidential character, which could not be communicated to  The Presidential under dated June 27, 1975 bars maintainability of a petition for a writ of habeas corpus . Section 16A(9) of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act is 