 The judgment of the High Court of Orissa in Misc. Appeal No. 370 of 1991 was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYAL, J.- Special leave granted .  A third credit agreement dated November 15, 1984 between the borrower and defendant 4 (lender) in its individual capacity was entered into . The lenders agreed to lend 85 per cent of the  The case of the plaintiff further was that all the agreements between the borrower and the suppliers and borrower and lenders are interconnected and constituted one transaction and are vitiated by fraud committed by defendants  The defendants 1 to 3 represented that they had arranged credit facility for the proposed captive power plant through defendant 4 at a very low interest rate . Central Electricity Authority and other advisors had expressed reservations  An agreement was specifically guaranteed that the said plant would be 108 MW plant and capable of producing a minimum of 1400 million units of electricity over a period of 2 years . The loan was required  Defendants 1 to 4 were aware that the captive power plant is not of the specifications as contracted for and the suppliers by their letters dated July 3, 1989 and August 23, 1989 intentionally terminated  It was pleaded that there might have been some misrepresentations or fraud on the part of the suppliers which is not to their knowledge . The lenders have no concern with the suppliers with regard to  The High Court examined the terms of clause 2.1 of the guarantee given by defendant 12 in favour of defendants 4 to 11 and took the view that this clause under the guarantee agreement creates  The High Court also noticed that the fraud is alleged against defendants 1 to 4 and, therefore, it thought it fit to examine whether the prima facie allegation of fraud has been made  The High Court did not even appear to have noticed the findings of the trial court . It jumped to the conclusion that "the facts contained therein give a clear idea that defendant 4 had knowledge  The material and evidence has to show it. ie fraud. No material whatsoever is referred to by the High Court. The Privy Council held that: "Fraud like any other charge  A banker has to deal with its customers every day. If the bank calls its customer a valuable client it only means the credit worthiness of the client. It made no mention of the  The High Court was wrong in granting the temporary injunction restraining the appellant bank from recalling the amount paid to the respondent bank . Courts usually refrain from granting injunction to restrain the performance of the contractual  Learned Judge at pages 1141 and 1142 held as under: (SCR headnote) "In order to restrain the operation either of irrevocable letter of credit or of confirmed  The bank cannot be compelled to honour the credit in such cases . Since the bank pledges its own credit, involving its reputation, it has no defence except in the case of fraud . In  His Lordship observed that the guarantee was given on the understanding that the lien was raised and no further lien imposed, and that when the shipowners, in breach of that understanding  The plaintiff was that there was no proper demand for payment of balance of the mobilisation advance nor was it mentioned in the letter of demand to the bank . The Court noticed the replaced second  Iranian exporter in USA entered into agreement with Imperial Government of Iran and brought action seeking order terminating its liability on stand-by letters of credit issued by American Bank in favour of Iranian Bank  The Court had taken the view that the plaintiff had made a sufficient showing of fraud to justify an injunction against honouring the honouring of the letter of credit covering the sale of stereo receivers  The High Court was not right in working on mere suspicion of fraud or merely going by the allegations in the plaint without prima facie case of fraud being spelt out from the material 