 Article 32 does not permit an applica- tion merely for the purpose of agitating the competence of the appropriate legislature in passing any particular enact- ment unless the enactment also infringes any  It is clear that the Ordinance or the Act has not deprived the shareholder of his share itself . The share still be- longs to the shareholder . He is still entitled to the  The right still pos- sessed by the shareholder are the most important of the rights constituting his "property" The right to vote for the election of directors, the right to pass  The shareholder has been deprived of his unfettered right to appoint directors or to pass resolutions giving direc- tions or to present a winding up petition . Such depriva- tion  It is well settled in the U.S. that no one but those directly affected by a law can raise the question of the constitutionality of that law . The complaint cannot succeed because  The same principle was laid down in Jeffrey Manufacturing Company v Blagg, Hendrick v MaCyland and Newark Natural Gas and Fuel Company v. The City of Newark(1) In  A shareholder cannot raise the question of constitutionality of the impugned law under article 31 . He cannot complain of any infringement of his own rights as a shareholder, because his "property  The complaint of the petitioner on the head is form- lated 8 (iii) of the petition as follows :---"The power to share-hold-hold the law and equal  The Attorney-General contends that the petitioner as an individual shareholder cannot complain of discrimination against the company . The fact that these proceedings have been taken by 935 one single shareholder holding only one  There is not even a single preamble alleging that the company was being misman- aged at all or that any special reason existed which made it expedient to enact this law .  Mismanagement affecting production can never be reserved as a special attribute peculiar to a particular company or its shareholders . The law must embrace within its 939 ambit all companies which now are or 