 The West Bengal Special Courts Act (X of 1950), ss. 3, 5 Constitution of India, Art. 14--Act constituting special courts and empowering State Government to refer "cases  The West Bengal Special Courts Act (X of 1950) was entitled "An Act to provide for the speedier trial of cer- tain offences" The respondent, who was convicted by  An Act does not contravene the equality rule laid down by Art. 14 simply because it confers unregulated discretion on officers or administrative bodies . The notification issued under the Act in the  The whole object and purpose of the Act was to devise machinery for the speedier trial of certain offences . Article 14 of the Constitution does not mean that all laws must be general in character  This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established  Section 5 (1) could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences should be tried by a special court  Section 5 (1) must, in my opinion, be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences as, in its judgment,  The very idea of classification is that of inequality, so that it goes without saying that the mere fact of inequality in no manner determines this matter of constitutionality . The trend of recent decisions  Louisiana pilotage law made it impossible to appoint State pilots only upon certification by a State Board of river pilot commissioners who were themselves State Pilots . The Board made it impossi-  The law was "administered", i.e., not merely applied in a few stray cases, but regularly and systematically applied, making a hostile discrimination against a particular class of persons on  Section 5 (1) does not, either in terms or by necessary implication, discriminate as between persons or classes of persons; nor does it purport to deny to any one equality before  Romesh Thapar v West Bengal said to be unconstitu- tional and void . Court should not insist in such cases on what Holmes called "delusive exactness  The West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance, 1949, which was later replaced by the impugned Act, was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August,  The American Constitution which corresponds to article 14 has, ever since that Constitution has been in force, greatly exercised the minds of the Ameri- can Judges . Article 14 is as widely word  The reference to speedier trial in the preamble of the Act is the basis of classification is to read into the Act something which it does not contain and to ascribe to its  An Act which gives uncontrolled authority to discriminate cannot but be hit by article 14 . An exception comes into play when there is evi- dence of mala fides in application of  Section 5 of the West Bengal Special Courts Act is hit by article 14 of the Constitution inasmuch as it mentions no basis for the differential treatment prescribed in the Act for trial of criminals  The Special Act lays down substantially different rules for trial of offences and cases than laid down in the general law of the land, i.e., the Code of Criminal Proce- d  Two appeals are directed against the judgment of a Special Bench of the Calcutta High Court dated the 28th of August, 1951 . They arise out of two peti- tions  Anwar Ali and his 49 co-accused were convicted under various sections of the Indian Penal Code . The trial lasted for several months and by his judgment dated the 31st of March  There should be no discrimination between one person and another if as regards the subjectmatter of the legislation their position is substantially the same . Equal laws would have to be applied to all in the  Two cases referred to by the learned Attorney-General in this connection do not support his contention . All litigants, who are similar- ly situated, are able to avail themselves of  The West Bengal Special Courts Act has been introduced in the state of West Bengal . It has to follow the procedure for trial of warrant cases by Magis- trates . In a warrant  The West Bengal Special Courts Act has been struck down by the Supreme Court . The right of revision to the High Court does not exist at all under the new procedure, although the rights under  A line is drawn artificially between two classes of cases . Selection is left to the absolute and unfettered discretion of the executive government with nothing in the law to guide or control its action  The High Court has' held the provision of section 5 (1) of the West Bengal Special Courts Act to be ultra vires the Constitution only so far as it allows the State Government  DAS J. concur in dismissing these appeals but I am not persuaded that the whole of section 5(1) of the West Bengal Special Courts Act is invalid . Article 14 of  'The classification must not be arbitrary but must be rational, that is to say, it must not only be based on some quali- ties or characteristics which are to be found in  Judge Cooley J J. J. said that the difference brought about by a statute may be of such a trivial, unsub- stantial and illusory nature that that circumstance  Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows:-- " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases" as the State Government may, by general or  The preamble of the Act recites the expediency of providing for the speedier trial of certain 341 offences . To achieve this object, offences or cases have to be classified on  To offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason- able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble  The object of the Act is "to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences" and not of a partic- ular case or cases . The word "cases" has been  Section 5(1) of the Act empowers the State Govern- ment to direct "cases" to be tried by a Special Court of- fends against the provisions of article 14  Article 14 is as much a fundamental right as any other fundamental right dealt with in Part III of the Constitution . Procedural law may and does confer very valu- able rights on a  The Attorney-General argued that if the principle of classification has to be applied as a necessary test, there is a classification in the impugned Act . Whether the classification, ii any  The case cited in support of this view is that due process and equality are not violated by the mere conference of unguided power, but only by its arbitrary exercise by those upon whom it  Under article 12 of the 356 Constitution, even a local authority comes within the defi- nition of "the State" and section 13 provides in sub-clause (3)  Section 5 of the Act would have been unexceptionable if it only provided for the trial by a Special Court of certain of- fences or classes of offences or certain classes of cases .  The Constitution is not just pages from a text book but form the means of ordering the life of a progressive people . It is not enough merely to classify but the classification must not be '  Judges sub-stitute their own judgment of what is right and proper and reasonable and just for that of the legislature . Even in England, where Parliament is supreme, that is inevitable  The Constitution must, in my judgment, be left elastic enough to meet the altering conditions of a changing world with its shifting emphasis and needs . Judges must look straight into the heart of things  The West Bengal Special Courts Act of 1950 offends the provisions of article 14 and is therefore bad . Justice must also be seen to be done and a sense of satisfaction and confidence in it  P. A. Mehta: Sukumar Ghose . Sukum Ghose: Sukumar Ghose. Sukumur Ghose is a member of the National Statistical Statistical 