 Admission to Engineering College-Jammu & Kashmir Regional Engineering College, Srinagar, registered as a society under the Jammu and Kashmir Registration of Societies Act, 1898 . Admission to  The Society is an instrumentality or the agency of the State and the Central Governments and it is an "authority" within the meaning of Article 12 . Society can be disposed of in  The Government cannot be allowed to play truant with the basic human rights . It would be the easiest thing for the government to assign to a plurality of corporations almost every State business such as  The definition of "State" in Article 12 which includes an "authority" within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India is limited in its application only to  The oral interview test is not a very satisfactory test for assessing and evaluating the capacity and calibre of candidates, but in the absence of any better test for measuring personal characteristics and traits .  These writ petitions challenge the validity of the admissions made to the Regional Engineering College, Srinagar for the academic year 1979-80 . The judgment was delivered by BHAGWAT  The founding members of the Society are enumerated in clause 9 of the Memorandum of Association and they are the Chairman to be appointed by the State Government with the approval of the Central Government  50% of seats were reserved for candidates belonging to the Jammu & Kashmir State and the remaining 50% for candidates from other States including 15 seats reserved for certain categories of students . The  Petitioners had been able to score over petitioners only on account of very high marks obtained by them at the viva voce examination . Petitioners felt aggrieved by this mode of  Government increasingly utilised by the Government for setting, up and running public enterprises and carrying out other public functions . Government in many commercial ventures and public enterprises is resorting to more and more  The Court said that where a corporation is an instrumentality or agency of the government, it must be held to be an 'authority' within the meaning of Art. 12 . The  There is no cut and dried formula, which would provide the correct division of corporations into those which are instrumentalities or agencies of Government . The Court then proceeded to indicate the different tests,  The court in the International Airport Authority's case (supra) has our full approval . Social statics has no place. The contrast is between governmental activities which are private and private activities  The definition of "State" in Article 12 which includes an "authority" within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India is limited in its application only to  The composition of the Society is dominated by the representatives appointed by the Central Government and the Governments of Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh with the approval of the  Equality is a dynamic concept with many aspects and dimensions and cannot be imprisoned within traditional and doctrinaire limits . From a positivistic point of view, equality is antithetic to arbit  Admission which does not take into account the marks obtained at the qualifying examination, but prefers to test the comparative merit of the candidates by insisting on an entrance examination can ever be said to be  Oral test method suffers from difficulty of developing valid and reliable oral tests, difficulty of securing a reviewable record on an oral test, and public suspicion of the oral test as a channel 105  The marks allocated for the oral interview were 50 as against 100 for the written test . This constituted 33 1/3% of the total number of marks taken into account for the purpose of  In our mind that the marks awarded at the viva voce examination might have been manipulated with a view to favouring the candidates who ultimately came to be selected, but suspicion cannot take  The oral test would satisfy the criterion of reasonableness and non-arbitrariness . We think that it would also be desirable if the candidates were tape-recorded . 