 Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 1947-Section 33(c) (2)- Maintainability of an application under s.33 c (2) The 1st Respondent was  The Labour Court had jurisdiction to entertain the application of the 1st Respondent under S. 33-C(2) and to direct the appellant- to pay the arrears of  The only scope of the inquiry is to decide whether the ban imposed on the employer by this section should be lifted or maintained by granting or refusing the permission or approval asked for by the employer  Section 33A gives to a workman aggrieved by an order of discharge of dismissal passed against him in contravention of section 33, the right to move the Tribunal for redress of his  Whether the employer should be able to justify the order of discharge or dismissal on merits would depend on what remedy is pursued by the workmen . Such a highly anomalous result could never have  The facts giving rise to the two appeals are almost identical . The first respondent was a workman employed as an operator in the undertaking of the appellant from 1st March, 1970 and he  Labour Court had no jurisdiction under section 3 3C (2) to direct payment of wages to the 1st respondent on the basis that he continued in service and the application made by the  The application under section 33C(2) would be maintainable only if it can be shown by the workman that the order of dismissal passed against him was void ab initio .  The Punjab National Bank, Ltd. v. Its Workmen v. Pt. Ram Sarup and Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. (1) and Pvt. R0626  The Automobile Products of India Ltd. v. ukmaji Bala & Ors. (1) where the Court was called upon to construe section 23 of the Industrial Disp  The first issue which is required to be decided in a complaint filed by an aggrieved workman under section 33A is whether the order of discharge or dismissal made by the employer is in  It is difficult to imagine how the law can permit an order of discharge or dismissal which is void and inoperative to be justified on the merits . There can be no question of justification on  If employer discharges or dismisses a workman without obtaining permission or approval of the Tribunal, he would be liable to punishment under section 31 (1) and this punishment can extend even  The amounts ordered to be paid by the Labour Court may be treated as compensation instead of wages . The amounts which have already been paid to the workmen pursuant to the orders of the Labour 