 The Government of India liberalised the formula for computation of pension in respect of employees governed by the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 . Petitioners 1 and 2 who had  The Court heard that the scheme of liberalisation in computation of pension must be uniformly enforced with regard to all pensioners . Counsel for respondents contended that a classification based on the date of retirement  The division which classified pensioners into two classes on the basis of the specified date was devoid of any rational principle and was both arbitrary and unprincipled being unrelated to the object sought  The Court is not legislating in reading down the memoranda; when the Court strikes down the basis of classification as violative of Art. 14 it merely sets at naught the unconstitutional  The court is not making the scheme of liberalisation retroactive by its approach . Retroactiveness is implicit in the theory of wages . Pension has correlation to average emoluments and the  The preamble to the Constitution envisages the establishment of a socialist republic . Pension as a retirement benefit is in consonance with and in furtherance of the goals of the Constitution .  Union of India has been revising and liberalising the pension rules from time to time . Pension for the service personnel which will include Army, Navy and Air Force staff is governed by the  The liberalised pension formula introduced for the government servants governed by the 1972 rules was extended to the Armed Forces personnel subject to limitations set out in the memorandum with a condition that the new rules  Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment . The principle of reasonableness, which legally as well as philosophically, is an essential element  Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and equality of treatment . The thrust of Art. 14 is that the citizen is entitled to equality before law and  The Attorney General contended that this differentiation is grounded on a rational principle and it has a direct correlation to the object sought to be achieved by liberalising pension formula . The antiquated notion of  There are various kinds of pensions and there are equally various methods of funding pension programmes . Initially this class of pension appears to have been introduced as a reward for loyal service . In most of  The philosophy prevailing in a given society at various stages of its development profoundly influences its social objectives . The law is one of the chief instruments whereby the social policies are implemented and 'pension  Pension is neither a bounty nor a matter of grace depending upon the sweet will of the employer . It is a social welfare measure rendering socio-economic justice to those who in the hey-  Expression 'socialist' was intentionally introduced in the Preamble by the Constitution (Forty-Second Amendment) Act, 1976 . The basic framework of socialism is to provide a decent  The challenge is not to the validity of the pension liberalisation scheme . The petitioners challenge only that part of the scheme by which its benefits are admissible to those who retired from service  The Government was perfectly justified in liberalising the pension scheme . But we find no justification for arbitrarily selecting the criteria for eligibility for the benefits of the scheme .  An overdose of precedents is the bane of our system which is slowly getting stagnant, stratified and atrophied . Social security in old age commended itself in earlier stages as  The Court cannot make a scheme having financial implications retroactive, and this Court cannot grant any relief to pensioners who retired prior to a specified date . Pension is a liability incurred and has  Pension is not an incentive but a reward for past service, the court said . The date from which the scheme becomes operative is an integral part of the scheme, the doctrine of severability  The date of effect of the impugned orders has been selected on the basis of relevant and valid considerations . The only submission was that the date is not severable and some submissions in  The Court held that the Central Government cannot pick out a date from a hat and that is what it seems to have done in this case-and say that a period prior to that date  The respondent in the case applied for a licence for manufacturing matches on September 5, 1967, that is, a day after the date on which amended notification was issued and filed a declaration that  The Court does not legislate but merely interprets keeping in view the underlying intention and the object, the impugned measure seeks to subserve . If the choice of the date  The date of retirement of each employee remains as it is. The average emoluments have to be worked out keeping in view the emolument drawn by him before retirement but in accordance  There is no pension fund as it is found either in contributory pension schemes administered in foreign countries or as in Insurance-linked pensions . Non- contributory pensions under 1972 rules under 1972  We are satisfied that the eligibility for liberalised pension scheme of being in service on the specified date and retiring subsequent to that date' violates Art. 14 and is unconstitutional and is struck down 