 Cigarette Manufactures Association made a representation to the Central Board of Excise and Customs pointing out that corrugated fibre board containers are not an Integral or essential requirement for the sale  It was contended that the cost of the packing, primary or secondary, in which the cigarettes were packed when delivered to the buyer in the course of wholesale trade at the factory gate, the  If the Bench of two Judges in Jeet Ram's case found themselves unable to agree with the law laid down in Motilal sugar Mills case they could have referred the case to a  Rule 8 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 deals with the power to authorise exemption from duty in special cases . Rule 8 postulates the making of a special order by the Central  The corrugated fibre board containers are employed only for the purpose of avoiding damage or injury during transit . Excise duty which is levied on the goods is ultimately passed on to the consumers  These appeals by special leave raise a number of questions relating to excise duty leviable on cigarettes manufactured by the respondents . Barring one, all the other questions are now settled as a result  The cost of packing in which the goods are wrapped, contained or wound is not liable to be included in the value of cigarettes . We have broadly dealt with the question of the cost of  The value of an article in which it is generally sold in the whole-sale market at the factory gate is the degree of packing whose cost can be included in the 'value of the  The argument was that where the secondary packing is necessitated in order to protect the packed excisable goods from damage during the course of transportation from the factory gate to the godown or warehouse  The letter dated 24th May 1976 said the cost of corrugated fibre board containers was not liable to be included in the value of cigarettes for the purpose of assessment to excise duty .  The decision in Motilal Sugar Mills case (supra) marks a significant development in the law relating to the doctrine of promissory estoppel . The true principle of prom  There is contention that the doctrine of executive necessity propounded by Rowlatt J. was disapproved by Denning, J. as he then was, in Roberston v Minister of  It is elementary that in Republic governed by the rule of law, on one, howsoever high or low, is above the law . Everyone is subject to the law as fully and completely  In the case of Motilal Sugar Mills case, the court ruled that the cost of corrugated fibre boards containers should not be included in the value of the cigarettes for the purpose  The respondents would therefore be entitled to exclusion of the cost of corrugated fibre board containers from the value of the cigarettes only during the period 24th May 1976 to 2nd November 1982  J.AMAREDRA NATH SEN, J. finds with regret that he cannot persuade himself to agree with the view expressed by the Learned Chief Justice on the question of secondary packing  The cost of corrugated fibre board containers which the cartons containing the packets of cigarettes is packed, cannot be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty . The 