 Laxmi Raj Shetty was convicted of the murder of P.N. Gnanasambandam, Acting Manager of the Karnataka Bank, Madras . Shivram She  The Court did not discover any infirmity in the reasoning or the conclusion arrived at by the Additional Sessions Judge or the High Court . A report in a newspaper is only hearsay evidence  Laxmi Raj Shetty is under sentence of death on his conviction under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 for having committed the murder of the deceased P.N.  Laxmi Raj Shetty was recruited as a trainee clerk at the Main Branch in the month of August 1982, placed on probation in October 1982 and thereafter confirmed in April 1983 .  On May 21, 1983, the day watchman opened the Bank premises and found the Seiko watch of the deceased, his ball pen, pass book and other belongings along with an open  Dr. Cecilia Cyril, Associate Professor, Department of Forensic Medicine, Medical College, Madras performed an autopsy on the dead body of the deceased . She found that the deceased had  He admits that he did not go himself to Krishna Bhawan Hotel but sent a Police Constable but he could not find Neerappan . On that day he had also inspected all the  The case presents a feature which is rather disturbing and gave rise to a prolonged argument lasting over several days . There is however nothing on record to substantiate the story appearing in the newspapers .  Police Commissioner said rumours were bound to sidetrack and mislead the public and even police officers concerned in solving the crime . Wife of appellant No. 2 and daughter Kumari Usha R  Laxmi Raj Shetty was seen leaving the building on the fateful night at about 9 p.m. as testified by PW 18 Smt. Kanaka, the flower vendor,  Laxmi Raj Shetty left Madras by the 22nd morning and reached Mangalore on the next day i.e. on the 23rd . His act of disappearing from Mad  It is submitted that the prosecution evidence of the so-called recovery of the incriminating currency notes worth Rs.4,500 from the accused Laxmi Raj Shetty could not be  The circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is sought to be drawn must be fully established beyond any reasonable doubt . The circumstances so es tablished should not only be consistent with the guilt of  The walls of the strong room were constructed with RCC. There was an iron door fixed to that room supplied by Godrej company of the thickness of 3" having a dimension of  She knew the deceased Gnanasambandham who used to buy flowers from her, as well as the accused Laxmi Raj Shetty as they both used to come out of  Prosecution witnesses offered cash rewards to prosecution witnesses when the case was sub-judice . Learned counsel drew our attention to the observations of this Court in Lingala Vijay Kumar & Or  The accused checked into Hotel Chola Sheraton, a five-star hotel, on the night of 20th, stayed the whole of the 21st and his departure therefrom on the  The stay of the accused at Hotel Chola Sheraton at Madras on the night of the 20th, the whole of the 21st till his departure on the 22nd morning under  Pw 33 Smt. Justin D'Costa, the roommate of the deceased Kumari Usha Rani, sister of the accused Laxmi Raj Shetty, states that  A report in a newspapers is only hearsay evidence . A newspaper is not one of the documents referred to in s. 78(2) of the Evidence Act, 1872 by which  Laxmi Raj Shetty was sentenced to death for the murder of her alleged accomplice . Shetty used two stitchers lying in the Bank premises, indicating that the murder was 