 The High Court of Bombay allowed the petition holding (1) that Respondent 1 would be deemed to have been confirmed in his post because his work was satisfactory and a vacancy in the permanent  The rule in question comes under the ordinary and normal rule that without an express order of confirmation the Government servant will not be taken to have been confirmed in the post to which he was appointed  Malafide should be pleaded by specific allegations, not out of bias . The order of termination against Respondent 1 was not passed by way of punishment contravening the requirement of Article  Appellant No. 1 was appointed a Civil Judge (Junior Division) and Judicial Magistrate, First Class, on probation in accordance with the Bombay Judicial Service Recruitment Rules  His services were terminated by a simple order of termination dated the 15th December, 1971 which ran as follows:- "The Government is pleased to terminate the services of Shri V. R  In the High Court judgment there is a reference to an undertaking given by respondent No. 1 showing his willingness to accept the employment on a temporary basis . But that apart, the letter of  In Rule 6(3) of Punjab Educational Service (Provincialised) Cadre) Class III, Rules, 1961 a certain period had been fixed beyond which the probationary period could  The question of violation of Article 311(2) has to be examined in two perspectives . Even in the case of a temporary or officiating Government servant his services cannot be terminated by way  Ram Chandra Trivedi was a temporary clerk in a Canal Division in the year 1954 . Seven years later, he was required to appear in a departmental examination and there it was found  A charge of hostile discrimination was levelled with sufficient particularity against the appellant . Hostile animus was attributed by Belliappa in his writ petition to his superior officers . Bellia  It was argued that 162 officers had been appointed when respondent no. 1 was appointed to the Judicial Service of Maharashtra along with him . The service of none else was terminated and, perhaps,  The Court did deprecate there the act of the High Court in probing into the departmental correspondence that passed between the superiors of the Government servant for the purpose of determining whether the imp  Appeal allowed, the judgment and order of the High Court are set aside and the Writ Petition filed by the first respondent is dismissed . No occasion arises in such a case for scrutinising the 