 The learned Judge has stated that instead of losing his temper and creating a scene and threatening and terrorising him, the contemner should have argued the matter and encouraged the new junior Judge .  The contention is based on two grounds that Article 129 vests this Court with the power to punish only for the contempt of itself . The High Court is also another court of record vested with  English and Indian authorities are based on the basic foundation of inherent power of a Court of Record, having jurisdiction to correct the judicial orders of subordinate courts . Inherent powers of a superior Court  The High Court has inherent power in respect of contempt of itself as well as of its subordinate courts . The Supreme Court has no supervisory jurisdiction over the High Court or other subordinate courts,  High Courts have power to persist for the contempt of subordinate courts but that does not affect or abridge the inherent power of this Court under Article 129 . The Supreme Court and the High Court  The contempt alleged is in the face of the court, the court could have itself taken action for the offence on the spot . The procedure adopted by the learned Judge has resulted in some delay  "Contempt of court" is defined as an act or omission calculated to interfere with the due administration of justice . Section 2 abandcof the Act defines the contempt of court as  Judge he has referred to him as the 'applicant' took charge of the court proceedings . The learned Judge enquired from the contemner as to under which law the impug  The lawyer is not entitled to indulge in unbecoming conduct either by showing his temper or by showing disrespect to the court . He has defended his asking the question to the contemner since  The learned Judge has denied that he had conveyed to the contemner that he was going to set aside the entire order against a portion of which the . contemner had come in appeal .  If the judiciary is to perform its duties and functions effectively and true to the spirit with which they are sacredly entrusted to it, the dignity and authority of the courts must be respected and  The contemner abused his position both as a lawyer and as an officer of the Court . He has done distinct disservice to litigants in general and to the profession of law .  A failure on the part of this Court to punish the offender on an occasion such as this would thus be a failure to perform one of its essential duties solemnly entrusted to it by the  There can, therefore, be no conflict between Art. 142(1) and Art.32 . The existence of the said power is itself in dispute,and so, the present case  The power of the Court under Article 142 insofar as quashing of criminal proceedings are concerned is not exhausted by Section 320 or 321 or 482 Cr.P.C. or all of  The High Court Bar Association of Allahabad Bar Association said the argument has, therefore, to be rejected . They said that the disciplinary jurisdiction of the State Bar Council and the Bar Council of  The right to continue to practise, is subject to the law of contempt and the law laying down technical and professional qualifications necessary for practising any profession, which includes the legal pro- f 