 The respondents exported woolen goods to Afghanistan and were issued an Import Entitlement Certificate by the Textile Commissioner not for the full F.O.B. value of t,he  In appeal to this Court, it was found that the Export Promotion Scheme was administrative in character, that it contained mere executive instructions issued by the Government to the Textile Commissioner . It was  The case did not fall within the terms of s. 115 of the Evidence Act, it was still open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the Government to claim that  The High Court held that the Export Promotion Scheme specifically provided for granting certificates to import materials of the "value equal to 100% of the f.o.b. value of the goods  The Government of India issued a scheme to promote the grant of special import licences to replace the imported raw material content of the exported product . The Scheme covered a number of commodities of which export  The Textile Commissioner made his order without informing the respondents and giving them an opportunity to explain the materials on the basis of which the "import entitlement" of the respondents was proposed to be  In Robertson v Minister of Pensions, Denning, J. observed at p. 231: "The defence of executive necessity is of limited scope": Anson's "English Law of  The Import Trade Policy was evolved to facilitate the mechanism of the Act and the orders issued thereunder . It is not the form of the order, the method of its publication or the source  Exporter Ramchand Jagadish Chand v. Union of India and Ors. v. Rajkotia v. Chand . Court held in that case that the State had the  The licence was granted to a firm which was the holder of quota fight as an established importer . After the firm's dissolution, one of the partners applied to the Chief Controller to make  In each of the three cases, the Court observed that the Court was competent to grant relief in appropriate cases, if, contrary to the Scheme, the authority declined to grant a licence or  In The Municipal Corporation of the City of Bombay v. The Secretary of State for India in Council(1), it was held by the Bombay High Court that even though there is no formal  The High Court of Bombay held that the Government had lost its right to assess the land in question because of the equity arising on the facts of the case in favour of the Municipality .  Four exporters had appeared before the Committee appointed by the Textile Commissioner and explained the circumstances in which the exports were made by them . But it is common ground that the report of the 