 Bombay SalesTax Act, 1959-Ss. 37, 46, 63 validity of-Act prohibited collection of any sum not payable by way of sales tax or in excess of tax payable  The High Court was wrong in denouncing the impugned legislation as exceeding legislative competence or as a colourable device or as supplementary, not complementary . A law hasto be adjudged for  Black's Legal Dictionary states that 'to forfeit' is 'to lose, or lose, the right to, by some 'error, fault, offence or crime', 'to incur a  The word "forfeit" in the inartistically worded section is plainly punitive, not nakedly confiscatory . The word 'collected' does not cover amounts gathered tent  Abdul Quadar's case held that in regard to sums collected by a dealer by way of tax, which are not in fact exigible as tax, cannot be paid over to the Government  Sales tax law will have to demarcate articles on which tax can be collected and prohibit collection of tax in any manner not authorised by law .  The Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Bombay Act LI of 1959) (for short, the Act) applicable during the relevant period to the Gujarat State . The High Court of Maharashtra  Shri Kaji and Shri B. Sen, appearing for two separate dealers, did dispel the impression that the Trade was often to blame for abuse and did make out that in many  The High Court found that after all the expense and delay and strenuous endeavour to establish that the tax was not exigible, the department quietly resorted to the forfeiture provision . 'Heads  A Welfare State has a sacred duty while it exercises its power of taxation to police the operation of the law in such manner as to protect the public from any extra burden thrown on it by  If all that the legislation means to do is to take over, whatever the verbal veils worn, the collections which were ex hypothesis not sales tax but were illegal additives as if sales tax  'Forfeiture' is not a measure of penalty but an oblique methodology to do an illegitimate thing which is beyond the legislature's legitimate reach . Black's Legal Dictionary states that '  The classical view that 'no mens rea, no crime' has long ago been eroded and several laws in India have accepted forfeiture as a kind of penalty .  Abdul Quader (suprara) demarcades the constitutional watershed laying hands upon collections by way of tax by traders although they are not exigible under the law .  Ashoka Marketing Co. (supra) had to consider a slightly different provision from Abdul Quader . In the latter provision directed that every person who had collected any amount by way of  We do not think it is more feasible for ordinary buyers to recover from the common run of dealers small sums than from government . We expect a sensitive government not to bluff but to hand back  Section 37(1) says that 'any sum collected by the person by way of taxshall be forfeited' The State forfeits the whole illegal (often erroneous) collections and the  'Collected' not to cover amounts gathered tentatively to be given back if found non-exigible from the dealer . We therefore semanticise 'Collections' not 'to include  The Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959, was challenged by the Bombay High Court . The High Court ruled that sections 37(1) (a) and 46(2) of the Bombay  Section 46(1) prohibits collection of tax in certain cases by pro-tiding that no person shall collect any sum by way of . tax in respect of sales of any goods on  Orissa Sales Tax Act was amended in 1958 with retrospective effect incorporating section 14-A which provided that refund could be claimed only by way of sales-tax or otherwise . The Court was  The High Court reversed the decision in R. Abdul Quader and Co. vs. Sales Tax Officer Hyderabad . The decision did not consider the question whether a direction by the Government directing  An attempt to justify the provisions of section 11(2) on the ground that it was by way of penalty was not accepted . The Court added that the provision did not provide for a  Court held that sub-sections (3), (4) and (5) of Bihar Sales Tax Act are ultra vires of the State legislature and as a corollary sub-  Supreme Court held that section 12A(4) of the Bombay Sales Tax Act was void being violative of Article 19(1)(f) The Gujarat High Court upheld the validity of  The Bench followed its earlier decision in Kantilal Babulal's case reported in 16 S.T.C. 973 an appeal against which was allowed by the Supreme Court .  The controversy centers mainly on the question whether the provision as to the forfeiture in the impugned section is a penalty or whether it is merely a device to collect the amount unauthorised  The Bombay High Court rejected the contention of Mr. Kaji that the levy of the forfeiture in the sub-section is only a device for recovering the amount inauthorisedly collected .  Under section 37 the levy of penalty and forfeiture is provided for while under section 63 (1) (h) the person becomes liable to be criminally prosecuted for contravening the provisions of 