 The respondent-landlord filed two eviction suits for recovery of possession of a non-residential building which were in occupation of a firm Goraldas Parmanand and the appellant-  The High Court, accordingly confirmed the decree for eviction hence, the tenant after obtaining special leave of the Court . The burden to establish both the requirements of section 12(1)(f)  The High Court said that the remaining portion of the premises would be used by the landlord for his residence . Even though the portion utilised for the purpose of running the business would be smaller  A tenant under a decree of eviction is the appellant in this appeal by special leave . Landlord filed a suit for recovery of possession of premises being a small shop admeasuring 7'  The High Court rejected the application and dismissed the second appeal confirming the decree for eviction . The judge said the definition of the expression 'tenant' in Andhra Pradesh Building (Lease  The burden to establish both the requirements of section 12(1)(f) is squarely on the landlord . The law of pleadings require that such facts have to be alleged and must be  High Court had before it a fact beyond dispute and beyond controversy that the major portion of the building was vacated by the adjoining tenant way back in 1972 . This was an uncontroverted fact  An appeal against a decree or order of eviction is preferred and once in exercise of the right an appeal is preferred the decree stops being final . A tenant against whom a decree for eviction is  The High Court dismissed the action of the landlord taking cognisance of a subsequent event namely that the landlord acquired possession of a reasonable suitable non-residential building in the same town . The  High Court and first Appellate Court committed a manifest error apparent on the record by awarding possession also on the ground neither pleaded nor suggested . Landlord must have been quite aware that he  Raghunath Prasad claimed to be the owner of a building in Sadar Bazar, Bilaspur . One portion of the building was occupied by a firm Gorald  Goraldas Parmanand sued for ejectment of accommodation held by the defendants . The defendants preferred an appeal, and the first appellate court while dismissing the appeal maintained the findings of the  The High Court should have allowed the amendment to include the plea that the respondent had meanwhile obtained possession from Goraldas Parmanand . It is immaterial that the amendment was sought more  Appeal allowed.  Appeal allowed . Appeal allowed to be heard again . 