 Constitution of India, 1950, Articles 131, 256, 257 and 356(1)(a) The President's satisfaction under Art 356 can be based only on Governor's report . The President  Under Article 172(1) a Legislative Assembly of a State, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for six years from the date appointed for its meeting and no longer and the expiration of the  The Court, HELD :Per Beg, C.J.  of an impending proclamation under Article 356 of the Constitution to be followed by a dissolution of Legislative Assembly of the State concerned  Article 356(5) makes it impossible for Courts to question the President's satisfaction 'on any ground' Art 356(1) disables Courts from inquiring into the existence or nature  The time for the dissolution of a State Assembly is not covered by any specific provision of the Constitution or any law made on the subject . The most that one could say is that a '  It is not always necessary that the mere defeat of a State Government in a State Assembly must necessarily create a situation in which a dissolution of the State Assembly is obligatory . If an alternate Government  The Supreme Court will not shirk its duty to act in the manner in which the law may then oblige it to act . Proclamations under Article 356(1) are  The purpose of Article 131 is to afford a forum for the resolution of disputes which depend for their decision on the existence or extent of a legal right . Mere wrangles between Governments have  His Lordship considered it unnecessary to consider the implications of clause (5) of Art. 356, introduced by the 38th amendment and applied "Non-liquet" agreeing with  There are two limitations in regard to the nature of the suit which can be entertained by the Supreme Court under Art. 131\. The threatened dissolution of the Legislative Assembly did not involve any inf  'Me advice or suggestion has no binding effect on the Chief Minister and no legal consequences flow from it' 'Directive' issued by the Home Minister was unconstitutional, illegal or ultra v  The subject-matter of the dispute does not Pertain to legal rights of the State concerned to satisfy the requirements of Article 131 of the Constitution . Even after the dissolution of the Assembly,  The right of petitioners as members of the Legislative Assembly of Punjab is not a Fundamental right as envisaged in Part III of the Constitution . The right subsists only so long as the  A mere temporary dissolution of an assembly under Art. 356 does not amount to abolition of a State Assembly . The founding fathers of the Constitution have used the words 'State' in Art.  Original Suits Nos. 1 to 6 of 1977 have been filed on behalf of the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, and  Each of the 'plaintiffs in the six suits asks for a permanent as well as an interim injunction in slightly differing terms but the object of all these, injunctions sought is abundantly  The three petitioners in the Writ Petitions from Punjab are Members of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Punjab . They assert that there is a threat to their, fundamental right to property  A report of a talk of Shri Shanti Bhushan, the Minister for Law, Justice and Company Affairs, on the All India Radio, was sought from a letter to the  Advice to Nine States a Constitutional duty, says Shanti Bhushan, Union Law Minister . Advice to nine States a constitutional duty, he says . If State Governments chose to govern the  Shanti Bhushan said that the 42nd Amendment had been enacted . As the Ministers had taken an oath to abide by the Constitution, they could not ignore the provisions of the 42  There is no constitutional provision which gives the legislature of a State the right to continue undissolved despite certain supervening circumstances which may, according to one view, make its dissolution necessary  The issue before us is not whether one party or another has failed in the very objectives and purposes for which people give unto themselves Constitutions such as ours . Article 356(5)  The Constitution cannot assume unto itself powers the Constitution lodges elsewhere or undertake tasks entrusted by the Constitution to other departments of State which may be better equipped to perform them . Questions of political wisdom  The President may assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any body or authority in  The effects of a "proclamation of emergency" under article 352 are given in articles 353 and 354 of the Constitution . Article 352 must be preceded by actual occurrence of war or internal disturbance  The Court has not sat here to determine whether the concept of a basic structure, found in Kesavananda Bharati's case (supra), requires any clarification or a more precise definition  It is suggested, that the Union Government wants to take an undue advantage of the temporary gust of feeling which is believed to be sweeping the country as a result of the recent overwhelming victory of  In a sense, therefore, the Indian union is federal . But, the extent of federalism in it is largely watered down by the needs of progress and development of a country which has  Article 73(1) (a) of the Constitution tells us that the Executive power of the Union extends to all matters on which "parliament has power to make laws" Article 256  The only authority empowered to dissolve a legislative assembly under Article 174 (2) (b) of the Constitution was the Governor of a State who had to act on the advice of the Council  The Government of a State can also be regarded as not being carried on in accordance with the Constitution in cases where a Ministry, although properly constituted, acts contrary to the provisions of the Constitution  The most that one could say is that a dissolution against the wishes of the majority in a State Assembly is a grave and serious matter . This study brings out the grave responsibility of the Crown  It is not always necessary that, under a multiple party system, the mere defeat of a State Government in a State Assembly must necessarily create a situation in which a dissolution of the State Assembly  It could not possibly be asserted that procuring the dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly, with the object of gaining a political victory, is, in itself, an extraneous object which could  The High Court ruled that the exercise of power to issue a proclamation under Article 356(1) of the Constitution is not justiciable at all under any circumstances . A challenge to the  The Court could inquire into the existence of a condition precedent to the use of emergency powers . It is difficult to imagine how the grounds of action under article 356(1) could be examined  Court will not shirk its duty to act in the manner in which the law may then oblige it to act . Proclamations under article 356(1) are bound to  Article 357 has little to do with the incurring of any expenditure after powers of Governments of States have been assumed by the President under Article 356(1) (a) of the Constitution  Article 131 of the Constitution covers only disputes between the Government of India and one or more "States" or between two or more states . Article 300 provides, inter alia, that "  The ruling party at the Centre was not in power in any of the federating States for the first time in the history of this country . The Janata party which secured the verdict of  The Writ Petitioners complain of the deprivation of their right of property :since, if the Legislative Assemblies are dissolved, they will be denied the right to receive salary as members of  The use of the phrase "Government of India" in art.131 (a) and (b) does not mean that one party to the dispute has to, be the Government of  The States have the locus 55 and the interest to contest and seek an adjudication of the claim set up by the Union Government . The bond of constitutional obligation between the Government of India  The writ petitions have, however, no cause of action such as can sustain their petitions for the enforcement of fundamental rights under art. 32 of the Constitution . They contend that the threatened dissolution  The President is empowered to issue a proclamation and that proclamation is given a minimum life of two months, whether the Parliament approves it or not . Mr Garg expressed a grave concern for the future  The President may take various steps under clauses (a) to (c) of art. 356(1) which, though taken without the approval of the Parliament, may be irrevoc  The Congress (R) governments which are in power in the nine states must, it is stressed, be struck down as unconstitutional . An order which lacks bona fides has no existence in  The Home Minister's letter is clearly and indubitably on the safe side of the line . I am inclined to the opinion that the Government cannot claim the credit at the people's bar  Three legislators from the State of Punjab filed writ petitions seeking enforcement of the fundamental right to property guaranteed to them under Articles 19(1) (f) and 31 . They complain that if  Six suits before us filed by the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa . Each of these suits has been filed under  Section 204 of the Government of India Act, 1935 was significantly different . It contained a proviso that the dispute must inter alia concern the interpretation of an Order in Council made thereunder  There is no express provision in the Constitution requiring the Governor to act in accordance with the advice of the Council of Ministers as there is in the newly amended Article 74, clause (1)  Discussion of a Legislative Assembly is not tantamount to dissolution of the State, so as to give rise to a cause of action in the State . Article 356 occurs in Part XVIII which  The first two types of emergency are dealt with in Article 352 . The third is occasioned when there is break down or potential break down of the economy threatening the financial stability or credit of  The exercise of these powers strikes at the root of the federal principle because it vests the executive power of the state which, in the federal structure set up by the Constitution, is exerc  The constitution-makers, conscious of the serious consequences flowing from the exercise of this power, limited it by hedging its exercise with the condition that the Government of the State cannot be carried  There is no provision in' any clause of Article 356 or in any other Article of the Constitution that the President shall have no power to issue a Proclamation under clause (1) when  Proclamation is validly issued by the President under Article 356, clause (1) It has immediate force and effect, the moment it is issued and where, by the proclamation, the  Article 356, clause (1), subclause (c) provides that when the House of the People is not in session, the President can authorise expenditure out of the Consolidated  The 'directive' of Shri Charan Singh is nothing but an advice or suggestion to the Chief Minister of each plaintiff State to recommend to the Governor dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of  The learned Additional Solicitor General combated this contention by giving a two-fold answer . The exercise of power under Art. 356, cl. (1) depends on a wide  The Supreme Court is the ultimate interpreter of the Constitution . The Constitution is Suprema lex, the paramount law of the land, and there is no department or branch of government above or  The only limit on the Power of the President is that the President should be satisfied that a situation has arisen where the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of  Can the satisfaction of the President in such a case not be challenged on the ground that it is absurd or perverse or mala fide or based on (1) [[1970] A.  The premise on which the entire superstructure of the argument of the Plaintiff-States is based is thus wanting . People at large do not any longer appreciate the propriety of continuance in  The suits are filed under Article 131 of the, Constitution . The central issue is the constitutional right of a Council of Ministers to function as the Government of a State and of a Legislative Assembly  The right of a particular State to sue is not always equivalent to the right of the Council of Ministers in all matters . Article 131 of the Constitution relates to legal rights of the State or  All the State Assemblies, except Orissa, will continue, if not dissolved earlier, for a period of six years from the date appointed for its first meeting . The Legislative Assembly  It is submitted that these grounds, ex facie, are completely irrelevant and extraneous and even mala fide . Mr. Niren De referred to the decision of the Privy Council  The satisfaction of the President in issuing the proclamation under Article 356(1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any court on, any ground . Even the Additional S  The dispute is not a dispute vis-a-vis the legal right of the State a unit of the Union of India . One or more limbs, namely, and the Government, the  The President cannot be compelled to dis-close all the facts and materials leading to his satisfaction for an action under Article 356, generally speaking, open to challenge even on the disclosed facts .  Case of Stephen Kalong Ningkan led to a difference of opinion in the Federal Court, the Lord President of Malaysia and the Chief Justice of Malaya holding that the validity of the proclamation  No body has yet suggested, nor could any one do so, with any semblance of justification that such a wide power conferred on the President even by the original constitution as passed and adopt-  The six plaintiffs, namely, the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa have filed suits in this Court praying for a  The Government of India Act, 1935, which preceded the Constitution contained an express provision, viz. sub-s. (2) which expressly barred the right of the Court to grant any  The Constitution states that a Government should function with the confidence of the people . If a situation arose in which a serious doubt was cast upon the Government, then the provision for premature dissolution of  The State Governments do not possess any such right at all at all . Article 356 confers a power on the President to issue a Proclamation dissolving all Assembly does not contain any provision  The Federal Court clearly held that such a dispute clearly fell within the purview of S. 204(1) of the Government of India Act which was in pari materia to Art  The word "State" in the Constitution has been used in the ordinary sense of its term, namely, the State along with its territory or institutions . It has no reference to the State  It was contended that the right of the petitioners as members of the Legislative Assembly of Punjab was not a fundamental right as envisaged by part III of the Constitution . At the most,  A right to receive cash grants annually has been considered by this Court to be a property-see State of M.P. v. Ranojirao Shinde and An  Home Minister's letter is no more than an act of political courtesy . It is open to the Chief Ministers to refuse to act on gratuitous advice tendered by the Home Minister . The  The Chief Ministers of the States had the right to advise the Governors to dissolve the Assemblies or not to do so . Article 172 of the Constitution provides that the Assembly of every State  The Privy Council in Bhagat Singh and others v. The King- Emperor, observed that the existence of an emergency was not justiciable or not . The same view was  Ministers did not think it advisable to dissolve the Assemblies, their views are not binding . Exercise of the power under Art. 356 by the President is a matter which falls directly within  An order passed under Art. 356 is immune from judicial scrutiny and unless it is shown that the President has been guided by extraneous considerations it cannot be examined by the Courts . This brings  There were 54 constituencies in Bihar, 10 constituencies in Haryana, 4 in Himachal Pradesh, 40 in Madhya Pradesh, 25 in Rajasthan, and 85 in Uttar  In Dr. Akshabar Lal & Ors. v. Vice Chancellor, Banaras Hindu University (1) this Court explained as to what was the true nature and character  Article 74(2) bars any inquiry by any Court into the matters which form the subject-matter of the advice given by the Council of Ministers to the President . This Court, therefore  Art. 356(1) gives power to the President to issue a proclamation if he is satisfied on a report of the Governor of the State or otherwise to make a proclamation . Proclamation  The Kerala High Court in K. K. Aboo v. Union of India and others said the President has the undoubted jurisdiction to dissolve the Legislative Assembly by assuming the same power  There will be no order as to costs. (Suits & Petitions dismissed). 1977 dismissal of suits and writ petitions dismissed . 