 The purported object of the Andhra Pradesh Recognised Private Educational Institutions Control Act 1975 was to regulate the service conditions of teachers in private educational institutions and for ensuring the security of service of  Sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 3 are invalid and cannot be applied to minority institutions . By the Court: Sections 4 & 5 are unconstitutional as being violative  Section 4 is unconstitutional as being violative of article 30(1) of the constitution . Clause (a) contains but an elementary guarantee of freedom from arbitrariness to the teachers .  Article 30 implies that where an affiliation is asked for, the university cannot refuse the same without sufficient reason or try to impose such conditions as would destroy the autonomous administration of the educational institution .  Section 4 is ultra-vires and is violative of article 30 of the Constitution . No time limit has been fixed by the statute within which the competent authority is to give its approval  The power contained in section 3(1) and 3(2) is restricted to regulating the service conditions of teachers and for ensuring their security of service . It is not only reasonable but  The plea that the "competent authority" may be any petty officer cannot be upheld because it is defined in section 2(1) to mean "any authority, officer or person  Article 30(1) of the Constitution provides: All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice .  No doubt minority institutions cannot be discriminated against in the matter of granting State aid . The impugned Act, by reason of section 1 (3), applies to all private educational institutions .  Section 3 (1) is subject to any rules that may be made in behalf of the matter covered by it . The absence of rules on the subject makes the unguided discretion of the  Section 3 (3 (3) (a) contains but an elementary guarantee of freedom from arbitrariness to the teachers . It assumes the right of the management to suspend a teacher but  Section 4 of the impugned Act is unconstitutional, as being violative of article 30 (1). Section 5 is consequential upon section 4 and must fall with it . Section 6 aims  Civil Appeals will go back to the High Court of Andhra Pradesh for final disposal on merits in the light of our decision .  The question of the scope and ambit of Article 30 of the Constitution of India was very exhaustively considered as far back as in 1959 in Re: Kerala Education Bill (Supra)  The Court made it clear that although the minority institutions had no fundamental right to recognition by the State yet to deny recognition on terms which may amount to complete surrender of the management of the institution  The Government ordered the institution not to admit without permission of the Education Department private students in excess of 20% of the total strength in each class . The institution filed a writ petition under Article  The Court was considering the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Kerala University Act, 1969 . It was passed with a view to reorganise the University of Kerala and establish a University of private  Hidayatullah, C.J. observed sections were partly declared ultra vires of Article 30(1) by the High Court as they took away from the founders the right to  The Ahmedabad St. Xaviers College Society v. Anr. v. State of Gujarat & Anr., this is the leading case on the subject of the Gujarat University Act  Section 39 provided that within the University area all post-graduate instruction, teaching and training shall be conducted by the University . Subsection (3) of the section provided that the provisions of  Minorities will virtually lose their right to equip their children for ordinary careers if affiliation be on terms which wouId 956 make them surrender and lose their rights to establish and administer educational  This Court struck down section 33A(1) (a) of the Gujarat Act on the ground that the management of the college was completely displaced and was substituted by the university authorities .  The meaningful exercise of the right under Article 30(l) would and must necessarily involve recognition of the secular education imparted by minority institutions without which the right will be a mere husk  Khanna, J. shared the view taken by Ray, C.J. which has been referred to above . Criticised the constitutional validity of Section 52A of the Gujarat Act  The requirement that the college should have a governing body including persons other than those who constitute the governing body of the Society of Jesus has the effect of divesting that body of its exclusive right  The right to determine the composition of the body to administer the educational institution established by a religious minority must be left to the minority as that is the core of the right to administer . Mat  Article 30 does not give a free licence for maladministration so as to defeat the avowed object of the Article, namely, to advance excellence and perfection in the field of education .  Some of the provisions of the impugned Act are so harsh and arbitrary they amount to a direct and thoughtless interference with the management of the institution . The Act does not lay down  Section 3(2) seeks to control the power of the institution concern ed in the matter of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank or termination of the appointment of any teacher employed by any  Sub-section (3) of section 3 runs thus- "No teacher employed in any private educational institution shall be placed under suspension, except 974 when an inquiry into the gross misconduct  An 8-138 SCI/80 976 absolute and unguided power on the appellate authority which if passed against the management it cannot even file a civil suit to set aside this order  Several appeals are against special leave against the High Court of Judicature at Andhra Pradesh . The High Court set aside the order of the . High Court .  The writ petitions challenging the validity of certain provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Recognised Private Educational Institutions Control Act, 1975 (hereinafter called the Act) were heard . These writ  The object of the legislation in general and the impugned provisions in particular is to regulate the service conditions of the teachers and to ensure their security of service . The main attack on the  The Kerala Education Bill which was referred to this Court for the n purpose of opinion contained several clauses . The Constitution does not confer any right on the institution to receive any aid .  Clause 7 confers powers enumerated in clause on the managers . Clause 10 requires the Government to prescribe the qualifications to be possessed by persons for appointment as teachers in Government Schools and in private  The Kerala University Act, 1979 was passed to reorganise the University of Kerala with a view to establishing a teaching, residential and affiliating University for the Southern Districts of the State of  A reading of the decisions referred to above make it clear that while the right to establish and administer a minority institution cannot be interfered with restrictions, by way of regulations for the purpose of maintaining  Xaviers College case (supra), S. 33A(1) was challenged . It provided that every college was to be under the management of a governing body which must include  Regulations made for this 9-138 SCI/80 992 purpose should be considered to be ill the interests of minority educational institutions and as such they would not violate Art. 30(  Kerala Education Bill, 1957 Cl. 14(4) provided that no teacher of an aided school shall be dismissed, removed or reduced in rank or 994 suspended by the Manager without the  The scheme of the Act was that a Governing Body or Managing Council was to be set up for private colleges . The composition of the bodies were to include Principals, Managers  The main ground on which the powers were found to be violative of the right conferred under Art. 30 was that the right of appeal was provided without defining the scope of the appellate authority  The preamble states that the Act it it to provide for terms and service conditions of teachers . It was submitted by Mr Lal Narain Sinha the learned counsel for the appellants  St. Xavier's College case (supra) held that the provisions of S. 51A (1) of the impugned Act in that case provided that no member of the  Sub. s(2) requires the competent authority to approve such a proposal if it is satisfied that there are adequate and reasonable grounds for such proposal . The word "reasonable" cannot be  S. 4 confers a right of appeal against the order of punishment imposed on teachers employed in private educational institutions . S. istence allowance at such rates as may be prescribed during 