 Constitution of India, 1950, Art. 14--Combined Seniority Scheme introduced by the Reserve Bank of India to equalise opportunities of confirmation and promotion of Clerks . Petitioners  A new' Scheme was introduced on May 13, 1972 as a result of continuous agitation by the employees for full equalisation of opportunities between the General Department and the Specialised Departments .  The only object of the Optee Scheme was to equalise the promotional opportunities of Grade II clerks in the General Departments with those of the Specialised Departments . There was no assurance  Anand Parkash Saksena v. Union of India [1968] 2 S.C.R. 611, referred to . The contention that there was violation of . the  There was a separate seniority list for employees in each group of departments at each centre of the Reserve Bank . The Departments falling within the first group were known as the general depart-  The Reserve Bank sought to justify the maintenance of separate seniority lists for various departments on the ground that the work in each department was becoming more and more of a special nature and inter-  The seniority of the optees on transfer to the Departments in Groups II, III and V will be determined on the basis that their trans-fers to the concerned Departments  The Asso- ciation was not satisfied with the Optee Scheme of 1965 as it did not go far enough and equalised opportunities for only a section of the employees in the General  An employee officiating as a Clerk Grade I as on 7th May 1972 will continue to officiate without prejudice to the claims of employees whose position may be above him in the combined senior  Notional seniority in the clerical cadre of those employees who are eligible for switchover on the 7th May 1972 and exercise their option under clause 2(a) will be  The Delhi High Court relied on three grounds for invalidating the Combined Seniority Scheme under Articles 14 and 16 . The argument of the petitioners under tiffs head of chal- l  The Reserve Bank could not, on any principle of law or by any process of implication, be held bound to hold its hands until the petitioners were promoted in the Specia- l  The Reserve Bank was entitled to introduce the Combined Seniority Scheme at any time it though fit . The validity of the scheme cannot be assailed on the ground that it was intro- du  It is entirely a matter for the State to decide whether to have several different cadres or one integrated cadre in its services . The integration of non-clerical with clerical services  There will be no order as to costs. Appeals allowed.(1) [1968] 2 S.C.R. 611, 622.V,P.S. 