 1954 SC 447; 1955 SCR 415 (29 April 1954) The grant of Jagirs and Muafis in the four villages violated art. 31(1) and art.  The grants were absolute in character and would under any civilised system of law pass an absolute and indefeasible title to the grantees . No sovereign can exercise an act of State against  Thirty five States in Bundelkhand and Baghelkhand (including Charkhari and Sarila) agreed to unite themselves into one State which was to be called the United State  The Government of the Indian Dominion was also a party and its Secretary in the Ministry of States appended his signature to the document . The said amount is intended to cover all the expenses of  The order of revocation was made by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, and under the Constitution it is clear that no State Government has the right to do anything in the nature of an act of  The burden of proving that the new sovereign has recognised the old rights lies on the party asserting it . The learned counsel for the petitioners relies on this class of case and derives this much  Hyde places limitations on the doctrine at page 432 . Corpus Juris: International Law, Volume 33, page 415 . Lord Alverstone C.J. in West Rand Central Gold Mining  The Rulers of Charkhari and Sarila retained, at the moment of final cession, whatever measure of sovereignty they had when paramountly lapsed, less the portion given  The final Instrument of Accession complies with sub-section (1) above . It is beyond dispute that there neither can, nor could, be confiscation of property, as an  The title of a foreign alien to land was upheld under the law in India derived from non-British sources, that is to say, under the laws of the land before cession .  Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's statement (he was then in charge of the States Department) 5th July, 1947, is reproduced at page 157 . He said at page  It is impossible for a sovereign to exercise an act of State against its own subjects . This is so even on the English authorities which claim 437 far higher rights for the State than other  Petitioners are entitled to a writ under article 32(2) A writ will issue restraining the State of Uttar Pradesh from giving effect to the orders complained of and directing it to restore possession 