 1956 SC 116; 1955 (2) SCR 1140 (31 October 1955) The appellant and his brother were put up for trial on charges under s. 302 read with s.  The Code of Criminal Procedure is designed to subserve the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by more technicalities . The object of the charge is to give the accused notice  The Code requires that in a sessions trial there should be a 1143 charge in writing . A deliberate breach of this basic requirement cannot be covered by the assertion that every thing was orally explained  A conviction under s. 302 simpliciter without a charge being framed therefor is an illegality in the mode of trial . There is no difference in principle between a charge under s  The word 'illegality' which is frequently used in the judgments is nowhere defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure . The word had been used by the judges to convey that the trial  Appeal is against a conviction for murder in which the lesser sentence was given . The main ground is that the appellant was charged under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code read with section 34 .  The only matter for determination is a question of fact whether there was prejudice in this case . The charge was as follows: "That you, on or about the 12th day of February  The key to the problem lies in the words underlined. The courts must be guided by the plain provisions of the Code without straining at its language .  The swing of the pendulum has been (1) [1926] L.R. 54 I.A. 96, 109.1154 away from technicality . The swing  Certain irregularities which do not vitiate the proceedings are set out in section 529 . A third class is dealt with in sections 531, 532, 533, 535,  The law could have provided one way as easily as another, but what it has chosen to do is set out in the following sections . Errors in a charge, and even the total absence  The Court is directed not to regard any error, omission or irregularity in the charge as fatal unless it has in fact occasioned a failure of justice .  We are unable to hold that the Code regards sections 237 and 238 as part of the normal procedure . Section 237 is only a corollary to section 236 and is there to emphasise  The Code deals with the same subject-matter under different heads, so there is some overlapping . Sections 222 to 224 deal with the form of a charge and explain what a charge should contain  Errors, omissions and irregularities' in charges that are framed, down to charges that might have been framed and were not and include a total omission to frame a charge at all at any  Section 225, 232, 535 and 537(a) between them cover every conceivable typo, of error and irregularity referable to a charge that 1168 can possibly arise .  There is no such thing as a judicial precedent on facts though counsel, and even judges, are sometimes prone to argue and to act as if there were . Endeavour was made in  Nanak Chand v. The, State of Punjab(1) was also a case in which the charge was under section 302/149 of the Indian Penal Code with the conviction under section  The section is just as mandatory as section 233 and we can see no justification for giving it less weight than section 237 . The only kind of case left is a case in which there is  When several persons join in the commission of a crime and share a common intention, it means that each has the requisite intention in himself . The fact that others share it does not absolve  The defence was this: "I wasn't there", "It was dark and the deceased rushed at the appellant (who is now said to have been there despite the alibi), fell  There was no enmity according to the finding of the learned Sessions Judge . Admittedly, there was no premeditation and there was a sudden fight, so we are unable to  Under section 149, liability arises by reason of 'the membership of the unlawful assembly with a common object, and there may be no active participation at all in the perpetration or commission of  In Abdul Rahman v. The King-Emperor(1), there was a violation of section 360 of the Code which provides that the deposition of each witness shall be read over to him  The scope of the decision in Subramania Aiyar's case has' become so circumscribed that it is dobutful if it applies to the generality of cases of o  A case of complete absence of a charge is covered by section 535, whereas an error or omission is dealt with with section 537 . Where there is no charge, it is for  William Smythe was on terms of intimacy with Beryl P.W. 13 . She was the sister of Donald Smythe, who was living with her in her house . The accused  The elements specified in section 300 of the Indian Penal Code are not enough to bring the case within the scope of section 300 . We take the view, considering all the circumstances that the offence  The conviction is valid because of the statute itself and not because of section 535 . The prosecution is in possession of all the evidence upon which it relies to establish its case against the accused  A charge under section 302 read with 149 of the Indian Penal Code only is framed against an accused person . It would be reasonable to suppose that neither the prosecu- tion nor the Court 