 The seller presented 20 sets of documents in the first lot and 27 in the second, the aggregate value of which was equivalent to the amount of letter of credit . The sellers filed a suit  A Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal with the result that the seller received the whole of the amount of the letter of credit as well as bought the whole lot of goods for  The balance of convenience clearly lies in allowing the normal banking transactions to go forward . The sellers have failed to establish that they would be put to an irreparable loss unless are interim injunction was  The facts are somewhat complicated, but it is necessary to disentangle the facts to bring out the point of law involved . The letter of credit issued by the appellant was in the following  The first lot consisted of four sets of the value of Rs 7.30 lacs, seven sets of Rs. 12.78 lacs . The second of 27 sets, consisting of  On July 13, 1978 the plaintiffs addressed the following letter to their bankers, the Bank of India . They had submitted 19 documents for Rs. 1,92,648 each drawn under L  Bank of India executed a letter of indemnity or guarantee to the effect: 'We hereby `unconditionally' agree to hold you harmless and indemnified for all consequences of nonaccept  R.V. Shekar, Assistant Financial Controller, Godrej Soaps was acting on behalf of the plaintiffs, and the word `we' meant Messrs.Godrej  On August 6, 1978, the plaintiffs moved learned Single Judge at his residence, alongwith an affidavit of their Sales Manager stating that unless an injunction was granted the Bank of India would make  Bank of India refused to make payment to Bihar Food Corporation in 1979 . The court ruled that the refusal of the bank to honour the bills was a repudiation of the contract as a whole  Rowlatt J. held that the position of the banker under an irrevocable credit is in law the same as that of a person who has contracted to buy a shipping document representing  A letter of credit has no concern with any question that may arise between the seller and the purchaser of the goods, for the purchase price of which the letter was issued . In English,  Documents tendered by the seller must comply with the terms of the letter of credit, and that the banker owes a duty to the buyer to ensure that the buyer's instructions relative to the  The High Court should have granted a temporary injunction, as it did in this case, to restrain the appellant from making a recall of the amount of Rs. 85,84,456 from  Bankers are not dealers in mustard oil in such a case as this, but dealers in documents only, says Ravi Agrawal . Adrawal: The appellant presumably knew little  The Bihar Corporation refused to accept the consignment on the ground of discrepancies and because the mustard oil was not fit for human consumption . The High Court's powers under Art. 136 of Constitution  The High Court rejected the High Court's request for a temporary injunction against the Bank of India . The application was rejected with a direction to dispose of the case as soon as possible . 