 Rajasthan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Act(Raja-sthan Act VI of 1952 )-Validity-Rajpramukh-Compet  The word 'jagir' connoted originally grants made by Rajput Rulers to their clansmen for military services rendered or to be rendered . Later on grants made for  The Bhomicharas enjoyed large powers but their status was only that of subjects . The status of a person must be either that of a sovereign or a subject . The law does  The Khandela estate was granted in 1836 on a permanent lease . The grant is, therefore, not an Istimrari tenure, but a permanent Izara .  Dr. Bakshi Tek Chand, (O. C. Chatterjee and Naunit Lal, with him), for the Petitioners in Petitions Nos. 356 to 359,  The Rajasthan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Act No. VI of 1952 came into force on 18-2-1952 . The Act was approved by the Raj  The Act does not provide for adequate compensation; nor is there any public purpose involved in it, and so it contravenes article 31(2) It is discriminatory, and therefore contra  The constitution of the United State of Rajasthan as it finally emerged is to be found in the Covenant entered into by the 14 rulers on 30-3-1949 . The right  The Rajpramukh was not functioning as the Legislature of Rajasthan under the terms of the Covenant . Article X(3) expressly provides that the legislative authority of the State  Section 22 of the Act provided that the resumption was to take effect notwithstanding any jagir law which as defined in section 2(d) includes also custom, that such a law  The Rajasthan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Bill was approved by the Council of Ministers on 27-12-1951 and sent to the Rajpramukh  The Rajpramukh did not prepare the Bill but merely assent to it on the executive side, the petitioners argued . The petitioners' contention is that such adoption should  When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly of a State, article 200 enacts that it shall be presented to the Governor who is to declare whether he assents to it or  Section 21 authorises the State to issue notifications for resumption of jagir lands . Section 22(1) enacts: "Right, title and interest of the jagird  Under the law, a jagir could be resumed only under certain circumstances . The right to resume jagirs within the limits aforesaid was founded on grant and regulated by general law  It was argued that the heads of legislation mentioned in the Entries should receive a liberal construction . Section 22(1)(a) further enacts that the lands shall stand resumed "to  All lands of the State must fall within one or the other of the two categories, Khalsa or jagir . The term 'jagir' is used both in a generic  The Bhomichara tenure is to be found in Jaisalmere, in Shekhawati in Jaipur and in Marwar . The area continued to be distracted by disputes  We agree with petitioners that a jagir can be created only by a grant . We do not base this conclusion on the ground put forward by Achhru Ram that the word  The law does not recognise an intermediate status of a person being partly a sovereign (1) [1941] L.R. 68 I.A. 109 . We are unable to  The Marwar Encumbered Estates Act, 1922, referred to the provisions of the Marwar . Act, where the word 'jagir' is defined as excluding Bhomich  The Bhomicharas did not prior to the enactment of Marwar Act No. 341 1949 hold the lands as grantees from the State, whether they must be deemed to hold  Bhomichara tenure is comprehended within the term 'jagir' in section 169 . The only feature common to jagirs, Bhoms, Sasan and Dolis  Petitioners contend that even if Foujbal is revenue, there has been no separate assessment of the mahals to it, as what is paid is a consolidated sum of Rs. 10  The relevant provisions of this Act are sections 27, 106 and 116 . The argument of the respondent is that under these provisions the ownership of the lands vests in the Maharajah .  Mr. Frank Anthony appearing for some Mewar petitioners contended that their status was that of Chiefs with semi-sovereign powers, and that it could not be said that they held  The northern section of Jaipur forming the trans-Aravali region of the State is known as Shekhwati . It consists of large estates known as Panchp  Section 4(15) of the Jaipur State-Grants Land Tenures Act No. I of 1947 defines "State grant" as including a jagir, muam  The Tikana- consists of 18 villages, and that only two of them are held as 'Sube' It is argued that these villages at least could not be treated as held under  Section 3(3) of the Alwar State Jagir Rules, 1939 defines jagir as meaning "grant of land or money granted is such by His Highness or recognised  Petitions Nos. 401, 414, 518, 535 and 539 of 1954: The contention raised with reference to them is that they are not estates according to the law of  Petitions Nos. 483, 527, 528 and 675 of 1954 and 1 and 61 of 1955: The question that is raised in these petitions is whether grants made for  The Raj Mata of the ruler of Tonk was receiving a monthly allowance of Rs. 762/- for her maintenance and in lieu of it, the village of Bagri with its ham  Petitioners admit they are "owners as petty jagirdars" of the properties mentioned in the schedule of the Act . The compensation provided by the rules is inadequate, being far less  An objection to the validity of an Act relating to acquisition of property on the ground that it did not provide for payment of compensation was an objection based on article 31(2) It was  The contention of the petitioners is that the Act according to its title is one to provide for resumption of jagir lands, not all of them . Section 21 provides that the  Petition No.392 of 1954 is the estate of Khandela in the former State of Jaipur . Petition is the successor-in-interest of Raja Abayasingh  The precise nature of the tenure called 'istimrari' is set out in Venkatachar's Report . The report emphasises that the grantee held as "istim  The petitioner contends that Javad is not the name of any tenure, and that it means only a sub-grant . The word 'javad' is not in Wilson's  The impugned Act is not open to attack either on the ground that the Rajpramukh had no legislative competence to enact it, or that the procedure prescribed in article 212 