 Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code as introduced With effect from 18-12-1978 is constitutionally valid . The prolonged terms prescribed by the Section is supererogative  The mandatory minimum of 14 years actual imprisonment will not operate against those whose cases were decided by trial court before the 18th December, 1978, directly or retroactively as explained in the judgment  Section 433A sets a lower limit to the execution of punishment provided by the Penal Code and is appropriately placed in the Chapter on "Execution and Sentences" in the Procedure Code .  No remission, however long, can set prisoner free at the instance of the State, save by action under r the constitutional power or under section 432/433 of the Code or Articles 72  It is trite law that civilised criminal jurisprudence interdicts retroactive impost of heavier suffering by a later law . The benefit of doubt, other things being equal  Article 74, after the 42nd Amendment silences speculation and obligates compliance . The Governor vis a vis his Cabinet is no higher than the President save and narrow area which does not include  In the present distressed and disturbed atmosphere if deterrent punishment is not resorted to, there will be complete chaos in the entire country and criminals will be let loose endangering the lives of thousands of  The contention that the main object of every punishment must be reformation of the offender is not correct for three reasons: (i) There is no evidence that all or most of the criminals  The Petitioners challenge the vires of s. 433A of the Criminal Procedure Code (Procedure Code, for short) which compels `caging' of two classes of  The case of the petitioners is that Parliament has broken the law of the Constitution by enacting s. 433A . They are either sentenced by court to imprisonment for life in cases where  Indeterminate sentences for the same reason, have been criticised since they have led to a system of sentencing which has worked substantial hardship and injustice on countless inmates . A blanket ban against release  In many States, we are told, lifers falling within the twin tainted categories routinely earned remissions under the extant rules resulting in their release in the matter of a few years . The  The principal challenge has been based upon an alleged violation of Arts.72 and 161 by the enactment of s. 433A . Sarvashri Nand Lal, R.K.  Issues of liberty are healthy politics and those sincerely committed to human rights must come to the support of poor prisoners who have no votes nor voice and may perhaps be neglected by human rights vocalists  There is hardly any doubt that s. 433A must hold its sway over any State legislation even regarding 'prison and prisoners' if its provisions are repugnant to the Central Law .  The States have the power to make rules on Remission Systems and many States have, for long, made and worked such rules . They are intra vires, since even new legislations  The topic of Prisons and Prisoners does not cover release by way of reduction of the sentence itself . No remission, however long, can set the prisoner free at the instance of the  Godse was sentenced to imprisonment for life . He had earned considerable remissions which would have rendered him eligible for release . Godse sought his release through a writ petition under Art. 32  The short question is whether the insistence on 14 years as a minimum term for release retroactively enlarges the punishment . This indirectly casts a heavier punishment than governed the Crime when it was committed  The next submission is that s. 5 of the Procedure Code saves all remissions, short-sentencing schemes as special and local laws and, therefore, they must prevail over the Code  'Special law' or the effect on it intended to be produced in express terms . The word 'specific' is specific enough to avoid being vague and general . We are inclined to agree  The primary purpose of prison sentence is hospital setting and 1227 psychic healing, not traumatic suffering, curative course, not retributive force . We feel that correctional strategy is integral to  An inflexible 14 year term for lifers under s.433A eschews chances of human change and puts all the penal eggs in the linear cellular basket . It follows that an  Remission Schemes offer healthy motivation for better behaviour, inner improvement and development of social fibre . The argument is that 14 years in prison is an inordinate spell which is not only  The question is whether a 14-year term as a mandatory minimum, is so extremist and arbitrary as to become unconstitutional, even assuming the rehabilitatory recipe to be on our penological pharmac  In terms, S.433A applies only To two classes of life-imprisonment . The true content of the provision is that in the two specific categories specified in s. 433  The power to remit is a constitutional power and any legislation must fail which seeks to curtail its scope and emasculate its mechanics . The exercise of this plenary power cannot be  The Constitution is the suprema lex and any legislation, even by Parliament must bow-before it . The present provisions (ss. 432 and 433) have verbal verisimilitude  Constitutional power is 'untouchable' and 'unapproachable' and cannot suffer the 1239 vicissitudes of simple legislative processes . What the Code gives, it can take,  The power to pardon, grant remission and commutation cannot be a law unto itself but must be informed by the finer canons of constitutionalism . In the Inter-national Airport Authority case  The power to pardon, commute or remit is subject to the wholesome creed that guidelines should govern the exercise even of presidential power . Political vendetta or party favouratism cannot but be  95 per cent of those who are currently incarcerated in prisons will be returned to be our neighbors . At best, prisons are able to provide a form of crude retribution to those unfortunate to be  We find the rise of enlightenment in penological alternatives to closed prisons as the current trend and failure of imprisonment as the universal lament . Remission Rules and short- sentencing schemes are humanising  Prison reform is more the skin than in the soul and needs a deeper stirring of 1248 consciousness than tantrums, threats and legalised third degree .  Remission rules or short-sentencing provisions proprio vigore may not apply as against s. 433A, but they will override s 433A if the Government, Central or State  The War is not lost even if a battle be lost. Justice must win. Since personal liberty is at stake urgent action is the desideratum. The authorities concerned will carefully implement The  Sir Leon Radzinowicz in his book 'The Growth of Crime' aptly observes as follows:"Long imprisonment could be regarded as the neat response to all three requirements: it would put  Ted Honderich is not at all against the reformative form of punishment on principle, but this matter has been thoroughly considered by Graeme Newman in his book 'The Punishment Response  A person who has deprived another person completely of his liberty for ever and has endangered the liberty of his family has no right to ask the court to uphold his liberty . Rehabilitation of the  The four main objects which punishment of an offender by the State is intended to achieve are deterrence, prevention, retribution and reformation . The question on which a divergence of opinion has been expressed  A person who committed murder in the heat of passion may not repeat his act at all later in life . The severity of each punishment sanctioned by the law is directly proportional to the seriousness of 