 The first respondent studied for his intermediate examination in two ,colleges one after the other, but never sat for the examination . In 1952, though he was a member of the Congress  There was no suggestion in the statement that the first respondent himself was corrupt or that the suicide was the result of his personal corruptions . The words used at the time of putting down the  Golok Chandra Baruah filed an election petition challenging the election of the appellant on various grounds, including a charge that false statements as to the personal character of respondent No. 1 had  The leaflet purports to have been published on behalf of the Nowgong District Congress Election Committee . The original leaflet was in Assamese and the translation is in accordance with  The High Court was of the view that the publication of these statements was bound to lower respondent No. 1 in the opinion of the voters and, consequently, this publication amounted to a corrupt  In Assamese, the two words which have been translated as "injustice" and "chaos" were "Durniti" The High Court took these words to mean "  The Chairman, Sri G. C. Barua, stands - 671 fully liable for the loss, which should be recovered from him now . The contents of clause (Kha)  The main allegation that Dharmeswar Sarma, the Head Clerk, committed suicide and that it was the result of corruption which was going on in the Municipality are borne out by  A statement that a person is a thief clearly imputes to him moral depravity, while statements saying that he has committed "Deshdrohita" or "Vishwasgh  The words "Deshdrohita" and "Vishwasghatakta" have been used in this leaflet only to bring into light the conduct of respondent No.  A false statement of fact, which deals with the political position or reputation or action of a candidate, cannot be held to be a corrupt practice under s.123(4) of the  The appeal is, consequently, allowed, the decision of the High Court is set aside and the election petition is dismissed with costs in both Courts . The publication of the leaflet, as 