 The appellant was owner of two plots in which he hypothecated a rice mill and the plots with U.P. Financial Corporation . The appellant requested the Corporation to release the vacant  Sub-section 4 of section 29 treats the Corporation "to be a trustee" of the debtor or person claiming title through him . It saddles the Corporation with inbuilt duties, responsibilities  The financial corporations under the State Financial Corporations Act were visualised not as a profit earning concerns but an extended arm of a welfare state to harness business potential of the country to benefit the  An action is bad even without proof of motive of dishonesty, if the authority is found to have acted contrary to reason . It does not become bona fide and in good faith merely because  An appeal under Art. 136 of the Constitution arises against that judgment . Mahatma Gandhiji laid emphasis to establish cottage industries, "to utilize the idle hours of the nation"  The State of Uttar Pradesh constituted the Corporation under s.3 of the State Financial Corporation Act [1951, Act 63 ] of 1951, for short, `the Act' which came  There is a theorem that the economic self-interest and profit motive induce entrepreneurs to reallocate resources among activities until they get the same rate of return from different lines of activity . Unless  Section 29(1) of the Act says that if an industrial concern makes any default in repayment of any loan or advances or any instalment thereof, the Corporation shall have the right  An action is mala fide if it is contrary to the purpose for which it was authorised to be exercised . The Corporation was guilty of not acting in accordance with law either at the stage  A trustee is empowered to sell any trust property by public auction or private contract . The sale may be either by public sale or by private contract. The trustee must use reasonable diligence in inviting  Public property owned by the State or by any instrumentality of the state should be generally sold by public auction or by inviting tenders . The court has been insisting upon that rule, not  Sale of a unit should always be made by public auction . Sale by private negotiation should be permitted only in very large concerns where investment runs in very huge amount for which ordinary buyer may not  Appeal allowed for plot Nos. 219 and 221 to be released within four weeks . Release subject to payment of entire sale price to the loan account . 