 The Government of the State of Madhya Bharat substituted the following new rule for admission to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Indore, when it took over the administration of the  There is at Indore a Medical-College known as the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College run by the State of Madhya Bharat . The petitioner who is a resident of Delhi  In 1910 the name of the school was changed to King Edward Memorial School, Indore . In 1940 the Committee decided to improve the status of the School, and started collecting funds for equ  Article 15(1) enacts: "The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them"  A classic statement of the law on this subject is that of Lord Westbury in Udny v. Udny(1) In Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. VI  A person's rights are affected by having his legal home or domicile within a territory governed by one system of law, i.e. within a given country, rather than within  The rule requiring the payment of a capitation fee and providing for exemption therefrom refers only to bona fide residents within the State . There is no reference to domicile in the rule  The State has to contribute for the upkeep and the running of its educational institutions . Education is a State subject, and one of the directive principles declared in Part IV of the Constitution is that  The original rule by the date when the College was taken over by the State was that "Madhya Bharat students are exempted from capitation fees" But on the State taking over the  The use of the phrase "capitation fees" for this additional amount levied from some, is indicative of its discriminatory character . The only question accordingly is whether this discrimination falls within the mischief  Category (a) has reference only to "original domicile in Madhya Bharat" Category (b) requires precedent residence, which is clearly intended not to insist on precedent residence  The personal laws in India, as is well known, depend mostly on religious affiliations . There is thus no place for regional domicile, in the existing Indian law .  The phrase "domicile in Madhya Bharat" in the relevant rule defining the phrase "bona fide resident" has to be considered and understood . The concept of regional dom  H. L. Gupta, in his affidavit, even if accepted as correct, can have any bearing . The rule in question has reference to place of birth in Madhya Bharat primarily 