 An appeal against an award of bonus to the workmen of the Mysore gold mining industries, then under company management . A covenant in the lease executed in favour of the companies permitted  Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 24, 1956, of the Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Madras, in Industrial Dispute No. 1 of 1956 .  Appellate Tribunal in the Mill Owners Association, Bombay v. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay (1) without suitable modifications to the case of the mines.  Four Public Joint, Stock Companies incorporated in the United Kingdom were operating the Gold Mines of the Kolar Gold Fields by virtue of leases of mining rights obtained by them from the Government of M  In The Mill Owners Association, Bombay v. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay(1), the Labour Appellate Tribunal was called upon to consider the workmen  The tribunal does not think the appellant has made out a case for any addition to the 905 existing categories of prior charges . It is clear that the amounts which can be admitted under the  The argument is that this is a valid contract between the lessor and the lessee . The only obligation which the lease has imposed on the appellant is that the appellant shall make a search  Mysore Gold Mining Co., for instance, the capital 909 expenditure in question during the year ending December 31, 1953, was shown as Rs. 3,30,729 (  Employer's case was that though this bonus had accrued for the year 1950 it was actually paid in 1953 and so the amount of the bonus should be deducted from the gross profits for 1953  The Appellate Tribunal accepted 913 the finding of the tribunal that the employer had failed to prove that in a particular year the maximum of 15% was in fact required to be contributed  In Trichinopoly Mills Ltd. v. National Cotton Mills Workers' Union, Ramjeenagar (1) the appellate tribunal has observed that for determining the total amount required for  Sanyal v. Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen Ltd. is remanded back to the industrial tribunal for reconsideration . Court: Appeal should be finally  Costs of the present hearing of the appeal will be costs in the appeal . Mr. Sanyal has agreed without prejudice that the appellant will pay to the respondents fifteen days basic wage towards 