 The Indian Income-tax Act(XI of 1922), as amended by Amending Act XXVI of 1956, ss. 5(7A), 64(1), (2)  The explanation added to the section by the Amending Act XXVI Of 1956, was intended to expand the connotation of the term 'case' used in the section and included both pending  The petitioners are M/s. pannalal Binjrai, Oilmill owners, merchants and commission agents, carrying on business at Sahibganj in the district  These petitions may be compendiously described as the Amritsar group . Petitioners also thereupon filed the petition challenging the validity of the order of transfer made by the Commissioner of  The petitions concern the assessment of the petitioner to income- tax for the respective years 1944-45, 1945-46, 1946-47, 1947-48 and 1948-49 . The  The Indian Income-tax Amendment Act, 1940 (XL of 1940) was passed as a result of the decision of the Bombay High Court in Dayaldas Kushiram v. Day  The case of the assessee there had been transferred by the Central Board of Revenue under s. 5(7A) of the get from the Income-tax Officer, District 111,  The question as to the constitutionality of s. 5 (7A) of the Act was thus left open and the decision turned merely on the construction of the impugned order .  There was no specific provision in the Act for transferring a case from one Income-tax Officer to -another except by a long and circuitous course even at the request of the assesse  Section 64 was intended to ensure that as far as practicable an assessee should be assessed locally, and the area to which an Income-tax Officer is appointed must bear some reasonable relation to  The hierarchy of income-tax authorities which is set up under Chapter 11 of the Act has been so set up with a view to assess the proper income tax payable by the assessee .  Authorities under the Act are able to transfer the case of a particular assessee from the Income-tax Officer of the area within which he resides or carries on business to any other Income-  The power which is vested in the Commissioner of Income-tax and the Central Board of Revenue is a naked and arbitrary power unguided and uncontrolled by any rules . No rules have been framed  No rules or directions have been laid down in regard to the exercise of that power in particular cases, the appropriate authority has to determine what are the proper cases in which such power should be  It will be next to impossible for the assessee to challenge a particular order made by the Commissioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the case may be, as  There is no fundamental right in an assessee to be assessed in a particular area or locality . The power is guided and controlled by the purpose which is to be achieved by the Act itself  An inconvenience resulting from a change of place or venue occurs when any case is transferred from one place to another but it is not open to a party to say that a fundamental right has been  The answer of the State is that the orders are valid by virtue of the explanation to s. 5(7A) which was added by the Indian Income-tax Amendment Act, 1956  The orders complained against in these petitions were all made by the Commissioner of Income-tax Central, Calcutta, on July 27, 1946, and further proceedings were entertained against the petition  The whole attitude of the petitioner is motivated by an intention to delay the payment of income-tax legitimately due by him to the Revenue trying to take advantage of a mere technicality . The  Special circles without reference to area were created at Bombay and Calcutta, because existing circles, whose hands were full, could not take up extra work . These 320 cases were distributed between  The petitioners had their office at Hoshiarpur in Punjab but their activities were scattered in various parts of India some of them being in Assam, Bombay, Bareilly, Cal  Petitions Nos. 97 & 97-A of 1956, Nos. 44/56 and 85/56, (3/56), (3) Petitions No. 86/56 