 Two writ petitions raise common question of law: Whether female tribal is entitled to parity with male tribal in intestate succession? The first petitioner is an Editor of a Magazine 'Manushi'  "Raiyat" means primarily a person who has acquired a right to hold land for the purpose of cultivating it by himself or by members of his family, or by hired servants  Article 13(1) declares that the preconstitutional laws, so far as they are inconsistent with the fundamental rights shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be void . Article 14 ensures  The U.N. Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) was ratified on December 18, 1979 . Article 1 defines discrimination against women to  Article 21 of the Constitution of India reinforces "right to life". Equality dignity of person and right to development are inherent rights in every human being . Women are entitled to enjoy economic, social  The Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and women, from time immemorial, suffered discrimination and social inequalities and made them to accept their ascribed social status . Agriculture is  In Chiranjeet Lal vs. Union of India, this Court held that the guarantee against the denial of equal protection of the law does not mean that the same rule of law  Section 14 gives to every Hindu woman full ownership-of the property irrespective of the time when the acquisition was made, namely, whether it was before or after the Act had come into force  The custom in the tribal society is much influenced by the instinct of possessive authority and not on the basis of sociological origin but it has been carried, generation after generation, as being  The tribal society could not attain the status of law and there is no legal validity except in the cases of inheritance and some family laws like adoption and marriage . The unmarried daughter has ordinarily no  The Garos, the Khasis and the Jhintias are the main inhabitants of Meghalya State . The Gonds in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar  Santhals are one of the largest tribes of India spread over West Bengal, Orissa, Bihar and parts of Assam and Tripura . The succession is in favour of the son  Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act excludes applicability of customs to the Scheduled Tribes as defined by clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution unless the Central Government, by notification  Hindu Law and Usage (13th Ed.), revised by Justice A. Kuppuswami, commenting on Sub-section (2) of Section 4 of Hindu Succession Act,  The Hindu Succession Act regulates succession of agricultural land and the word 'property' in Sections 6 to 8, 14 and 15 and other sections in that Act would include agricultural land . The  The Christians in India are governed by the [Indian Succession Act, 1925]. It is stated that by operation of Section 1 notification issued under the Government of India Act of 1935, the 