 Haryana Passengers and Goods Taxation Act, 1952 is not violative of Article 301 of the Constitution . Entry 56, List II of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, scope of  The Court is not bound by any statement made by the Executive Government on a question of the legislative intent or nature of an enactment . What the legislature intended an enactment to be need not necessarily  Under sections 4 and 5A of the Uttar Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, tax is levied on the basis of their user in the State of Uttar Pradesh and not because they are "  The State of Haryana levies a tax on passengers and goods carried by motor vehicles, which we may call, for brevity's sake, 'passengers and goods tax'  The High Court upheld the vires of Sec. 3(3) of the Haryana Passengers and Goods Taxation Act in so far as it permits the levy of tax on  The [National Highways Act 1956] provides for the declaration of certain highways to be National Highways . Shri Sorabji relying on Union of India v. H. S.  In a Federal Constitution like ours where there is a division of legislative subjects but the residuary power is vested in Parliament, such residuary powers cannot be so expansively interpreted as to wh  Haryana Passengers and Goods Taxation Act is a law made pursuant to the power given to the State Legislature by entry 56 of List II . We have held that the power exerc  Court upheld validity of validity of the Rajasthan Statutory provision and observed: "Regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities do not come within the  Constitution Bench of the Court holding that there was no violation of Art. 301, observed :. "We are also of opinion that no inter-State trade, commerce or intercourse is affected  Shri Kapoor appearing for petitioners in a large majority of Writ Petitions raised a number of contentions . One of the submissions was that entry 56 of List pursuant to which the  The lump-sum to paid in the case of public goods vehicles is Rs.4 per day for the number of days covered by the journeys to be performed within the State in respect of  The decision in State of Mysore & Ors. v. Sundaram Motors P.   Ltd., (supra) has no application to such cases as already pointed out 