 Section 34-A of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, introduced in 1960, provides that no banking company shall be compelled to produce or give inspection of its books of account or other document  The exclusion of the Reserve Bank from the operation of s. 34-A (2) also does not amount to discrimination; in the very nature of the provision the reserve Bank could not  Appeal No. 154 of 1961 has been filed on special leave obtained from this Court Against an order of K. T. Desai, J., functioning as the National Industrial Tribunal (B  We are not now concerned with the desirability or ethics of the practice which is a matter for the consideration of the legislature but as to the steps by which accord was established between the  Shamdasani filed a complaint against the Central Bank of India Limited and its directors charging them with having issued a false balance- sheet for the year ending December 31, 1939 . The  Disputes arose between employees of banks all over India with regard to wages, conditions of work etc. which were referred by the Central Government in 1949 to an ad hoc Tribunal with Shri  Central Government in exercise of powers conferred on it by sub-s. (1A) of s. 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act referred the dispute which related to several matters to  Constitution guarantees citizens in general and to workers in particular the right to form unions . As strikes, as strikes, however, is this attempt at some approximation of the position of the workmen  Industrial Disputes Act 1947 is a restriction on the fundamental right to strike . Government is empowered in the event of an industrial dispute which may ultimately lead to a strike or lock-out .  The right to form an union is guaranteed by sub-el. (c) of the freedom to form the association, carry with it a further guaranteed right to the company or the partnership  It is one thing to interpret each of the freedoms guaranteed by the several Articles in Part III a fair and liberal sense . It is quite another to read which guaranteed right as involving or including  The right to strike or the right to declare a look-out may be controlled or restricted by appropriate industrial legislation . The validity of such legislation would have to be tested not with reference to  We do not consider these observations and this construction of el. (1) of Art. 30 assist learned Counsel in his submission as regards the theory of concomitant rights flowing from the  A complaint that the impugned provision withdraws the dispute from the adjudication of an impartial arbitrator and leaves it to the decision of another body is an obvious overstatement of the  Learned Counsel made a further submission that the impugned enactment was a piece of colourable legislation and that the purported objective of securing secrecy from disclosure was really a device adopted for depressing wages  It was first submitted that the provision was rendered invalid because it vested an arbitrary power in. banks which were parties to a dispute under the Industrial Disputes Act, to claim or not to  A submission on similar lines about bias was also made in relation to the impact of the impugned provision relating to the industrial dispute between the State Bank of India and its employees . 