 The Industrial Disputes Act does not confer on the power to cancel or supersede a reference made thereunder in respect of an industrial dispute pending adjudication by the tribunal constituted for that purpose  An industrial dispute was referred to a tribunal for adjudication by the appropriate government under s. 10 (1) (d) of the [Industrial Disputes Act, 1947], (  The High Court at patna was in error in holding that the government of Bihar had no power or authority to set aside the two earlier notifications and to refer the dispute in question for adjud  Union made an application before the tribunal alleging that the' majority of the workmen were opposed to the reinstatement of the sixty workmen in question . Union of Fateh Narain Singh  The policy of the Act is to secure and preserve good relations between the employers and their workmen . The Act contemplates compulsory adjudication of industrial disputes by labour courts and 1199 trib  It is only where it makes an order in writing refering an industrial dispute to the adjudication of the tribunal that the reference proceedings can commence . The scheme of the relevant provisions would prim  It is urged that if a dispute referred to the industrial tribunal under s. 10(1) is settled between the parties, the only remedy for giving effect to such a compromise would be  The power to cancel its order made under s. 10(1), which the appellant claims, is an absolute power . We have no hesitation in holding that the rule of construction enunci  The State of Uttar Pradesh had referred an industrial dispute to the Labour Commissioner on February 18, 1950, and had directed the Commissioner to make his award not later than April 5, 1950 .  Bishan Narain J. appears to have taken the view that the power to cancel an order of reference made under s. 10(1) can be implied by invoking s.  The High Court has purported to issue a writ of certiorari against the State Government quashing the impugned notification . It has, however, been held by this court in The 