 1984 SC 63; 1984 (1) SCC 446; 1983 (2) SCALE 659 (27 October 1984) FAZALALI, SYED MURTA  The High Court has come to this finding on a complete misreading of the evidence of the High Court . Rege took an ingenious though improbable defence that Rege attempted to thrust the notes  The High Court failed to consider as to what motive could Rege have to falsely implicate the accused when he had not conducted the search nor was he directly connected with the charge sheet which  A complaint was made against Govind Shantaran Walawalkar (for short, to be referred to as `Rege') against his tenant . Police report made Rege extremely nervous  Walawalkar's claim that he used to get smell of liquor and see lot of people going and coming into his house . Allegations made by Rege against his tenant may have  The trial court was wise enough to see through the game and refused to be duped by the visibly charming and beautiful picture of falsehood and convicted him of the charges .  Prosecution says it is impossible to accept that an ordinary person like Rege would have the courage and audacity to forcibly thrust as many as twenty notes of Rs.100 denomination each into  The High Court seems to have devoted a major part of its judgment to the various case diaries produced before the court in order to establish that the accused was not present at the police station  A sum of Rs. 2000 was found from the person of Rege and the numbers of the notes were noted in the panchnama . The raiding party was directed to take a train  Rege gave the prearranged signal by taking out his spectacles and wiping the same with his handkerchief . On seeing the signal, PW 11, panches and other members  PWs 1 and 3 have fully supported the prosecution case but Mr. Jethmalani was unable to urge any cogent reason for not accepting the evidence . Certain contradictions or inconsistencies have  The High Court did not make any attempt to scan and appreciate the intrinsic merits of the evidence of PWs 1 and 3 as 639 corroborated by PW 7, which by itself was  The High Court has been disbelieving by the High Court merely on the ground that the constable who had gone to call Rege was not identified either by Mrs. Rege or by  The High Court seems to have cased its reasons not on the evidence which was given by PW 1 on oath but merely on suggestions which were categorically denied by him . It is clear  The High Court has shelved the complaint of Walawalkar and submitted a final report saying that no prima facie case had been made out because Rege had not made a  Appeal allowed and the respondent is convicted under s.161, I.P.C. and s.5 (1) (a) and 5 (2) of the Act . 