 1976 AIR 807; 1976 SCR 202; 1976 (3) SCC 119 (21 January 1976) FAZALALI, SYED MURTAZA FAzAL  The High Court dismissed the appellants' appeal . The parties arrived at a family settlement allotting khatas 5 and 90 to the appellant No. 1 . The settlement was not registered  A family arrangement being binding on the parties to it would operate as an estoppel by preventing the parties after having taken advantage under the arrangement to resile from the same or try to  Prem Pal nephew of Lachman and appellant Kale were parties to a dispute regarding inheritance to the property left by the deceased . Har Pyari and Ram Pyari appear to have been  The High Court took an erroneous view of the law in rejecting the compromise on the ground that it was not registered . Under s. 9 (2) of the U.P. Consolid  It was argued that an oral family arrangement had already taken place earlier and application before the Naib Tahsildar was merely for the information of the Court for the purpose of mutation of  A family arrangement is an agreement between members of the same family, intended to be generally and reasonably for the benefit of the family by preserving the family's peace and security . The Privy  The transaction appears to have been a settlement between the several members of the family of their disputes, each one relinquishing all claim in respect of all property in dispute other than that falling to  Court had observed that even if there was no conflict of legal claims but the settlement was a bona fide one it could be sustained by the Court . Even the disputes based upon ignorance of the  The Courts have taken a very liberal and broad view of the validity of the family settlement . The central idea in the approach made by the Courts is that if by consent of parties a matter  The parties sought adjournment on the ground that a compromise was being made . The parties filed compromise before the Naib Tehsildar according to which lists were drawn in the name of  The 217 parties had a clear compromise or a family arrangement in contemplation for which purpose an adjournment was taken . The High Court of Allahabad completely over looked its own previous decisions on this  In the circumstances indicated above, we cannot conceive of a more just and equitable division of the properties than what appears to have been done by the family arrangement . Responders 4 & 5 had  The disputes between the appellant Kale and respondents 4 & 5 arose only after the Naib Tehsildar had, on the application of the appellant, mutated his name in respect of  The High Court upheld the family settlement in Ramgouda Annagouda & others v. Bhausaheb and others . The Privy Council in somewhat identical circumstances P  Kale and Har Piari had no subsisting interest in the property so long as Mst. Ram Piari was alive . The three children of Lachman decided to divide the  Court in Dhiyan Singh v. Jugal Kishore and Anr. (1) observed as follows: "We do not think the fact that there was a voluntary com  The ultimate aim of the law is to secure justice. The High Court committed substantial error of law in not giving effect to the doctrine of estoppel as spelt out by this Court  Appeal allowed, the judgment of the High Court is set aside and by a writ of certiorari the order of Respondent No. 1 dated January 22, 1965 is hereby quashed 