 1969 AIR 634 1969 SCR (3) 341 1969 SCC (1) 509 (13 January 1969) HIDAYATULLAH, M. (CJ)  The High Court declared ss. 53 and 67 of the Act ultra vires and declared the town planning scheme invalid as a corollary .  Compensation fixed or determined on principles specified by the Legislature cannot be challenged on the indefinite plea that it is not a 'just or fair' equiv alent . To do so would be  The judgment in the two cases were delivered on the same day . It appears that the reasoning in two cases was not kept separate and the whole of the matter was discussed in a case in  The Bombay Legislature enacted Act 1 of 1915 with a view to remedy the situation . Scheme was sanctioned by the Government of Gujarat on July 21, 1965, and the final scheme came into operation  The Town Planning Schemes should form part of a single cohesive pattern for development of the entire area over which the local authority had jurisdiction . By making it obligatory upon a local authority to  The relation between ss. 53 and 67 which have been declared ultra vires by the High Court may now be determined . The expression "re-constituted plot" is defined in  Section 67 is intended to make adjustments between the right to compensation for loss of land suffered by the owner, and the liability to make contribution to the finances of the scheme . Section 71 is  The High Court felt itself bound by the observations made in the judgments of this Court in P.Vajravelu Mudaliar V. The Special Deputy Collector, Madras v.  The Assam Acquisition of Land for Flood Control and Prevention of Erosion Act 6 of 1955 was a purely exproprietary measure . The question is now settled by a recent judgment of  The object of the acquisition may be the opening of a public park for the improve- ment of public health or the erection of an embankment to prevent danger to life or property from  A part or even the whole plot belonging to an owner may go to form a reconstituted plot which may be allotted to another person, or may be . allotted to public purposes  The Zamindari rights of landholders in the State of Bihar were abolished in 1951 . The High Court held the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1951, contravened Art 14 in  Similar challenge raised to Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, rejected by the High Court of Allahabad: Surya Pat v. State of U  The power to legislate for compulsory acquisition of property was originally distributed under three entries . Entry 33 List I"Acquisition or requisitioning of property for the purposes of the Union  Rules enunciated by the Courts for determining compensation for compulsory acquisition under the Land Acquisition Act vary according to the nature of the land acquired . For properties which are not marketable commodities,  The amendment to the Constitution has by the (Fourth Amendment) Act made no subs- tantial difference in, the concept of compensation as a just equivalent or just recompense for the property  In 1956, Entries 33 of List I and 36 of List II were deleted from the Seventh Schedule and Entry 42 of List III was amended and now reads "Acquisition and requ  Court held that in making this three-fold modification in the application of the Land Acquisition Act for determining compensation payable the statute did not infringe the guarantee contained in Art. 31(2  The Metal Corporation of India (Acquisition of Undertaking) Act 1965, was enacted for acquiring in the public interest, the undertaking of the Metal Corporation . The validity of the Act  The Metal Corporation of India Ltd.'s case(1) was wrongly decided and must be overruled . The Parliament had specified the principles for determining compensation of the undertaking of the company .  Section 81 merely provides that the land needed for the purpose of a town planning scheme or development plan shall be deemed to be land . needed for a public purpose within the meaning of the Land  The acquisition was struck down in P.Vajravelu Mudaliar's case . No guidance was given by the Legislature about the statute which should be resorted to in a given case 