 Madhya Pradesh Excise Act, 1915 regulates the manufac- ture, sale and possession of intoxicating liquor in the State of Madhya . There were at all material times  The State of Madhya Pradesh was divided in several areas and a particular area was attached to each distillery for the wholesale supply of country liquor in that area . The person whose tender was  The existing nine distilleries were inadequate to meet this growing demand for country liquor . The buildings in which these distil- 4 leries were housed has become old and were in a  Nandial Jaiswal, Sagar Agarwal and M/s Doongaji & Co. filed special leave petitions against the High Court . The High Court substantially set aside  There are two types of li- cences for wholesale supply of country liquor to retail vendors . The licence in Form D-1 in clause 5 clearly contemplated that the holder of such licence  The High Court was not at all justified in splitting the policy decision into two parts and striking down the second part, while sustaining the first . The policy decision dated 30th December 1984 was  Supreme Court cannot permit any new plea as in this case, that non- obtaining a licence under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, disentitles setting up distilleries .  No one can claim as against the State the right to carry on trade or business in liquor . The State cannot be compelled to part with its exclusive right or privilege of manufacturing and selling liquor  Judges should not use strong and carping language while criticising the conduct of parties or their witnesses . Judges must act with sobriety, moderation and restraint . They must have the humility  M/s Doongaji & Co. and Nand Lal Jaiswal also, to the limited extent that they did not succeed, filed special leave petitions Nos. 6206 and  The State Government obviously has the monopoly in regard to manufacture, possession and sale of liquor as held in several decisions of this Court . Section 18 recognises the power of the State Government to  Mr. Justice B.M. Lal has held that these four modes of disposal are inter-related and "failing in one of the clauses, the next is to be acted upon  Distilleries were established long back by the State Government under licence issued by Excise Commissioner . The practice followed by the Excise Department in regard to the working of these distilleries  The total capacity of all the 9 distilleries in- cluding Nowgaon Distillery and Ratlam Alcohol Plant was only 203 lacs proof litres . The total production of country  The application of M.P. Distillers Association was examined by the State Government at different levels . The Excise Commissioner submitted his opinion to the Separate Revenue Department stating that it  An estimate of the cost involved in setting up the Bhopal, Ujjain, Badwaha, Seoni and Bhilai distilleries at the new sites should be  The Cabinet Sub-Committee at the meeting held on 20th September 1984 discussed two points raised by the Finance Department . All the Government distilleries should be transferred to the contractors concerned  The land should be given on 30 years' lease . The D-2 licences should be granted only to those distillerers to whom land is allotted for construction of distilleries .  The Finance Department submitted a Report raising 5 30 points against the recommendations made in the Report of the Cabinet Sub-Committee . These points were answered by the General Administration Department .  The State Government should possess a right of granting D-2 licence to any other distiller. The Sub-Committee has not made such a recommendation that apart from the existing distill  Letter of Intent set out various conditions sub- ject to which D-2 licence was to be granted in favour of each of respondent Nos. 5 to 11 . Clause (1)  Nand Lal Jaiswal and Sagar Agarwal filed writ peti- tions challenging the policy decision dated 30th December 1984 . Petitioners relied on clause 1 of the  The validity of the policy decision dated 30th December 1984 could be tested only 37 on its own terms and if it was otherwise invalid, the con- cession made on behalf of the  The High Court observed that no interference was "called for with the grant to this extent" No interference should be made in the petitions on the short ground that there is unexplained delay in challenging  An application has been made to us by the learned Attorney General that the objectionable remarks made by a learned Judge should be expunged . The Attorney General said the remarks were made by the  The first writ petition was filed by Nand Lal Jaiswal on 28th November, 1985 about 11 months after the date-of the impugned policy decision . The High Court  The petitioners say they were not aware of the policy decision dated 30th December 1984 . The right to construct distilleries and to manufacture and supply wholesale country liquor from such distiller  M/s Doongaji & Company knew as far back as April 1985 that the distilleries were being given in private ownership to the existing contractors . Sagar Agar- wal  The policy decision dated 30th December 1984 was a single integrated decision arrived at by the State Government . It is difficult to appreciate how the High Court could sustain one part of the policy and  The entire policy of the State Government con- tained in the policy decision dated 30th December 1984 would be frustrated and a new policy would be made out which patently the High Court  The Policy deci- sion dated 30th December 1984 was one integrated policy decision and it could either be sustained or struck down as a whole . We must accordingly hold that since the  Rule XXII permits any one of four modes of dis- posal of licence to be adopted by the Excise Authorities . It does not prescribe that the fourth mode can be resorted to  M/s. Doongaji & Co. v. Chaudhari v. Secre- tary, L.S.G. Deptt., Govt. of Bihar  The contention was that trade or business in liquor is so inherently pernicious that no one can claim any fundamental right in respect of it and Article 14 cannot therefore be invoked by the petition  The courts have only the power to destroy, not to reconstruct, the courts have said . The court cannot strike down a policy decision taken by the State Government merely because it feels that another  Cabinet decision dated 30th December 1984 while granting licences to the existing contractors leaves it open to other liquor contrac- tors to come in and apply for similar licences . The total capacity  M.P. Distillers Association offered to take over the existing distilleries . Cabinet SubCommittee decided to entrust the construction of new distillery to the private sector .  Sagar Aggarwal did make an offer but it may be noted that in the first place he was at no time a D-2 licencee and he had no experience of working  If any private party comes before the State and offers to set up an industry, the State would not be committing breach of any constitutional or legal obligation . The State is not obliged to tell  There is not an iota of evidence to establish or even as much as to indicate that the State Government was actuat- ed by any collateral purpose or was guility of any '  The Cabinet Sub-Committee did not recommend taking over of the plant and machinery of the old distiller- ies from the existing contractors against payment of its value . Sagar Agg  Ratlam Alcohol plant was unable to supply the requirements of even Jabalpur and Betul districts . Sagar Aggarwal himself had to pur- chase liquor from outside at higher rates 