 The question is whether the service rendered at a hospital/nursing home can be regarded as 'service' under Section 2(1)(o) of the [Consumer Protection Act,  The Act was enacted by Parliament to provide for the better protection of the interests of consumers . The General Assembly of the United Nations, by Consumer Protection Resolution No. 39/248, adopted  The Act affords protection to the consumer against unfair trade practice or a restricitive trade practice adopted by any trader, defect in the goods bought or agreed to be bought by the consumer  The words "or avails of" after the word "hires" in Section 2(1)(d)(ii) and "housing construction" were inserted by the Act 50 of  In the present case the inclusive part of the definition of "service" is not applicable and we are required to deal with the questions falling for consideration in the light of the main part and  Medical practitioners do not enjoy any immunity and they can be sued in contract or tort on the ground that they have failed to exercise reasonable skill and care . In Arizona v Maricopa County  Medical practitioners are not contemplated by parliament to be covered within the provisions of the Act. We are unable to uphold this contention. The word `hires' in Section 2(1)(  A breach of any of those duties gives a right of action for negligence to the patient . The House of Lords has accepted this ruling in a number of cases . The composition of the Commission  Government after consulation with the Chief Justice of India and four other members shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing having adequate knowledge or experience of, or having shown capacity in dealing with  The Act combines with legal competence the merits of lay decision making by members having knowledge and experience in dealing with problems relating to various fields which are connected with the object and purpose of the Act  Consumer Disputes Redressal Agencies are not intended to be included in the expression `service' as defined in Section 2(1)(0) of the Act . An employer cannot  Shri Rajeev Dhavan has submitted that the expression `contract of personal service' contained in Section 2(1)(o) of the Act has to be confined to employment of  The definition of 'complainant' contained in Section 2(b) of the Act also lend support to the view that the Act seeks to protect the interests of consumers as a class  Shri A.M. Singh vi has invited our attention to the following observations of Lord Denning M.R. in White house v. Jordan & Anr., [1980]  An analytical study of tort litigation in India during the period from 1975 to 1985 reveals that a total number of 416 tort cases were decided by the High Courts and this Court, as reported in  It is difficult to single out any one cause for what increase there has been in the volume of medical negligence actions in the UK . American system, with its contingency fees and its sympathetic j  Free service, would also be "service" and the recipient a "consumer" under the Act . Service rendered at a Government hospital/health centre/dispensary where no charge  The judgment of the Madras High Court in Dr.S. Subramaniam v. Kumaraswamy & Anr. (supra), holding that the services rendered to  There is, therefore, no merit in the Writ Petition and it has to be dismissed . Civil Appeal No. 254/94 is allowed and the judgment of the National Commission dated May 3 