 The Inquiry Committee on Small Newspapers examined the question of customs duty on newsprint and submitted its report in 1965 recommending total exemption of newsprint from customs duty . In 1971, a regulatory  The 5% auxiliary duty levied from April 1, 1973 continued to be in operation which was also totally abolished in July 1977 . The total exemption from customs duty on newsprint continued till March  Union of India contested the writ petitions alleging the Government had levied the duty in the public interest to augment the revenue of the Government .  It is the primary duty of all the national courts to uphold the said freedom and invalidate all laws or administrative actions which interfere with it . The pattern of Article 19 (1) (  The power to levy tax on persons carrying on the business or publishing newspapers has got to be recognised as it is inherent in the concept of government . The exercise of such power should however,  Subordinate legislation does not carry the same degree of immunity as a statute passed by a competent legislature . It may also be questioned on the ground that it is unreasonable, unreasonable not in the  Section 25 of the [Customs Act, 1962] confers a power on the Central Government coupled with a duty to examine the whole issue in the light of public interest . The power  In 1975 when the [Customs Tariff Act, 1975] was enacted, 40% ad valorem was levied on newsprint even though it had been exempted from payment of such duty  The Government cannot arrogate to itself the power to prejudge the nature of contents of . newspapers even before they are printed . The classification of newspapers into small, medium and big newspapers for  The challenge to the validity of the levy prescribed by the customs Tariffs Act, 1975 itself cannot be allowed to succeed . The Government cannot be deprived of the legitimate duty payable on imported news  Petitioners challenge validity of the imposition of import duty on newsprint imported from abroad under section 12 of the [Customs Act, 1962] (Act 52 of 1962) read with section  The first set of writ petitions challenging the above levy was filed in May, 1981 . At that time under the [Customs Act, 1962] read with the .Customs Tariff  In reply to the petitioners that there was no valid reason for imposing the duty as the foreign exchange position was quite comfortable, the Union Government has stated that the fact that the foreign .  A levy of basic customs duty of 40% ad valorem was imposed on newsprint . Only 5% auxiliary duty which was levied from April 1, 1973 continued to be in operation .  The price of imported newsprint in March 1, 1981 was A Rs. 4,560 per MT . The Minister of Finance proposed a customs duty of 15% on newsprint imports .  The Government was of the view that the total customs duty on newsprint in the public interest should be not more than 15 per cent . Parliament was moved by the Government specifically to increase the  The two important events which had taken place during the period between July, 1980 to June, 1981 were the enforcement of the Palekar Award regarding the wages and salaries payable in the newspaper  The Preamble to the Constitution says that it is intended to secure to all citizens among others liberty of thought, expression, and belief . It is significant that in the kinds of restrictions  "Many Voices, One World" a publication of UNESCO which contains the Final Report of the International Commission for the study of Communication Problems . In today's free world freedom of press is the  Government advertisements, conferment of titles on editors and proprietors of newspapers, inclusion of press barons in cabinet and inner political councils etc. The other kind of pressure is one of using  In Time v Hill, the U.S. Supreme Court said: "The constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech and press are not for the benefit of the press so much as for the  A citizen is dependent on the Press for the quality, proportion and extent of his news supply . The exclusive and continuous advocacy of one point of view through the medium of a newspaper which holds  The freedom of speech and expression of opinion is of paramount importance under a democratic Constitution which envisages changes in the composition of legislatures and governments and must be preserved . The impugned law  Shri Deshbandhu Gupta opposed the provisions in the Draft Constitution which authorised the State Legislatures to levy sales tax on sale of newspapers and tax on advertisements in newspapers . Gupta said  The power to levy customs duties on goods imported into the country is also entrusted to Parliament by Entry 83 in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution . The guaranty of freedom of  The power to levy tax even on persons carrying on the business of publishing newspapers has got to be recongnised as it is inherent in the very concept of government . The exercise of  A free press is one of the great interpreters between the government and the people . To allow it to be fettered is to fetter ourselves . The levy imposed by Louisiana was qu  A license tax certainly does not acquire constitutional validity because it classifies the privileges protected by the First Amendment along with the wares and merchandise of hucksters and peddlers and treats them  Justice Reed added at pages 1307 and 1308 thus: "It is urged that such a tax as this may be used readily to restrict the dissemination of ideas" Justice Frankfurter  Privy Council upheld the levy of the licence fee as being reasonably required in the interests of defence and for securing public safety etc. referred to in section 10 (2) (a)  A. P.Wadsworth of the Manchester Guardian said 'that no editor should ever be on personal terms with our leaders for fear of creating a false sense of relation of confidence'  The majority held that the fixation of page limit had not only deprived the petitioners of their economic vitality but also restricted their freedom of expression . It also held that such restriction of pages resulted  Narinder Chand Hem Raj & Ors. v. LtGovernor, Administrator, Administrator Union Territory, Himachal Pradesh . Court said: "No Court can direct subordinate legislative body  The relief as framed by the appellant in his writ petition does not bring out the real issue calling for determination . Art. 265 of the Constitution lays down that no tax can be levied and  Prof. Alan Wharam in his Article entitled 'Judicial Control of Delegated Legislation: The Test of Resonableness' in 36 modern Law Review 611 at pages 622  The Court may require the Government to exercise that power in a reasonable way in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution . Lord Greene M.R. has explained in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd  The most important raw material in the production of a newspaper is the newsprint . The cost and availability of newsprint determine the price, size and volume of the publication and also the quantum  Smaller newspapers and some parts of the "quality" or "specialized" press have experienced difficulties from a contraction of operations and size, which has led to limitations on the variety of  The number of stamps issued in 1820 was nearly 29,400,000 and the incidence of the advertisement tax, fixed at 3s. 6d. in 1804, made it  It is indisputable that the newspaper industry should also bear its due share of the total burden of taxation alongwith the rest of the community when any tax is specially imposed on newspaper industry .  The Government relied on the decision in Hamdard Dawakhana v. Union of India & Ors. v. Wakf Lal Kuan . The main plank of that decision was  American Court in Lewis J. Valentine v. FJ. Chrestensen (supra) held that business of advertisements and commercial matters did not enjoy the protection of the First Amendment .  There exists no analogy between Article 289 (l) and Article 19 (1) (a) and (2) of the Constitution . The Government cannot arrogate the power to prejudge  Counter-affidavit filed on behalf of the Government does not show whether the Government ever considered the relevant matters . It does not say that the increasing cost of imported newsprint was taken  Petitioners have succeeded in showing a fall in circulation but whether it is a direct consequence, of the customs levy and the increase in price has not been duly established . Fall in circulation may  The impugned notification dated March 1, 1981 was issued in supersession of the notification dated July 15,1977 . The Government of India itself canceled the carry forward rule of 1952 .  The State Government had been empowered by section 3 of the Saurashtra Terminal Tax and Octroi Ordinance (47 of 1949) to impose octroi duty in towns and cities specified  The Government of India shall reconsider within six months the entire question of levy of import duty or auxiliary duty payable by the petitioners and others on newsprint used for printing newspapers, periodicals  A writ shall issue to the respondents accordingly in these cases . Parties shall, however, bear their own costs . 