 Petitioner KULDIP SINGH challenged the Karnataka Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1984 . Petitioner, who came under the category  An individual cannot be assured of human dignity unless his personality is developed and the only way to do that is to educate him . Charging capitation fee in consideration of admission to educational institutions  The Karnataka Educational Institutions (prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1984 has been brought into existence by the Karnataka State Legislature with the object of effectively curbing the evil  Mohini Jain was denied admission to Sri Sriddharatha Medical College, Agalokote, Tumkur in the State of Karnataka . The Karnataka Government issued  Karnataka Private Medical Colleges Association say they do not receive any financial aid from either the Central or State Government . 40% of the seats in these 665 colleges are set part as "  The preamble of the Indian Constitution promises to secure justice "social, economic and political" for the citizen . Article 41 in Chapter IV recognises an individual's right "to education  The Indian Medical Association in its 56th All India Medical Conference held at Cuttack on December 28-30, 1980 passed the following resolutions . increasing demand for medical education has led to  At the time of independence we had 25 medicaal college which turned out less than 2000 graduates every year . At the present time, there are 172 )150 already functioning and 22 are  The state action in permitting capitation fee to be charged by state-recognised educational institutions is wholly arbitrary and as such violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India . Earlier the  D.P. Joshi says capitation fee is in contravention of Articles 14 and 15(1) of the Constitution of India . Education is a State subject, and one of  Section 5 of the Karnataka Government Act is reproduced by the relevant notification issued by the Government under the relevant part of the Act . Section 5 states that the minimum qualification for admission to any  The Act was brought into existence by the Karnataka State Legislature with the object of effectively curbing the evil practice of collecting capitation fee for admitting students into the educational institutions in the State  The State Government permits a private medical college to be set-up and recognises its curriculum and degrees than the said college is performing a function which under the constitution has been assigned to the 