 1992 SC2219 (1,2,4,8,9,16,17,23,TO 26,33,3 Constitution of India. 1950: Article 124(4  Constitutional process pending--Conduct of members of the bar--Propriety required that the Judge should not be embarrassed even before the charges were proved . Rule of law is a basic feature  Another Writ Petition was filed by an individual by way of a counter to the second prayer in the Writ Petitions filed by the SubCommittee on Judicial Accountability and the Supreme Court Bar Association  Per Ray J. J. (for himself, Venkatacha- liah, Verma and Agrawal, J J) The Court alone had jurisdiction to examine and pronounce on  Article 121 suggests that the bar on discussion in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge is lifted 'upon a 9 motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of  Bar on discussion contained in Article 121 is lifted and discussion can take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of the Judge . If, however, the finding reached by the machinery provided in  Use of the word 'may' in clause (5) indicates that for the 'procedure for presentation of address' it is an enabling provision . In the absence of the law  The [Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968] reflects the consti- tutional philosophy of both the judicial and political elements of the process of removal . The provisions  The court would then indeed be acting as a tribunal for the removal of a Judge and is productive of more problems than it can hope to solve . The question of propriety is, however  The law as to standing to sue in public interest actions has undergone a vast change over the years and liberal standards for determining locus standi are now recognised . Members of the Bar have  Clause (4) of Article 124 in emphatic terms declares that a Judge of the Supreme Court or the High Court shall not be removed from his office except on a special majority of the  The expression "motion" has not been defined in the [Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968]. The Lok Sabha Rules framed under Article 118 of the Constitution deal with "  It is not permissible to read the Act so as to mean that the House is not seised of the Motion and that it does not have anything to do with the inquiry pending before the  It is a well established practice for a larger body to entrust investigations to a smaller body for obvious practical reasons, and such an exercise cannot be characte- rised as indulging  The writ petitions raise certain consti- tutional issues of quite some importance bearing on the construction of the Constitution of India and of the "The Judges 25 (Inquiry)  Constitutional issues of some importance, therefore, arise as to the constitutional and legal position and status of a Motion for removal of a Judge under a law made pursuant to Article 124(5)  Allegations of financial improprieties and irregularities were made against Justice V. Ramaswami, when he was the Chief Justice of the High Court of Punjab & Haryana .  The arguments of the case covered a wide constitutional scheme relating to the removal of members of the superior judiciary in India and tO the problems of justiciability of disputes arising therefrom .  Article 121 provides that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the dis- charge of his duties except  In Canada, under section 99(1) of the Constitution Act of 1867, the judges of the superior courts hold office during good behaviour, and are removable by the Governor- General  The Canadian Judicial Council concluded that the public expression of political views in the nature of those made by Mr. Justice Thomas Berger constituted an "indiscretion", but that they were not a  There is no established procedure for the trial of a judge whose removal by the legislature is sought . There are some who fear that a parliamentary majority, encouraged by inflamed public feeling about an  A Constitutional Commission was set up in Australia for suggesting reforms in the Commonwealth Constitution . In the United States, the removal of a judge of the U.S. is governed by the provisions  In Canada, Australia and the United States, the process of removal of a judge incor- porates an investigation and inquiry into the allegations of misconduct or incapacity against a judge by a  The Seventh United Nations Congress on the Preven- tion of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders held at Milan from August 26 to September 6, 1985 adopted the Basic Principles on the Independence  In England, judges (like any other officials) can be impeached 'before the House of Lords' Mauro Cappelletti in 'The Judicial Process in Comparative Perspective'  Shri M.Ananthasayanam Ayyanagar proposed amendments suggesting two alternative clauses in the place of the Clause with regard to removal of the judges . The Constituent Assembly  The intention of the Constituent Assembly was that the provision with regard to the machinery for such investigation and proof was a matter which need not be contained in the Constitution and it is a  Petition under Pal 196 is not free from difficulty, but we are inclined to take the whole issue of Pal 196 . Learned counsel said impeachment motions are sui generous in their nature and that  The argument that the Bill which was pending assent of the President lapsed on the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly cannot be upheld . Article 124(5) and the law made thereunder  No question of repugnance could arise to the extent the field is covered by the law under Article 124(5) Such a view would obviate some anomalies which might otherwise arise  "The House of Commons is not a Court of Justice; but the effect of its privilege to regulate its own internal concerns practically invest it with the judicial character when it has to apply to  No motion for removal of a Judge would be permissible under Article 124(4) and the House of Parliament would not be brought into the picture till some authori- ty outside the two  Article 121 suggests that the bar on discussion in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge is lifted 'upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of a  Clause (4) of Article 124 contains the complete power of removal . If clause (5) is merely an enabling provision, then it cannot abridge the scope of the power in clause  The complaint must be made to the 'Speaker/Chairman', the complaint is de- scribed as 'motion' and the complaint can be made only by a specified number of  Article 124 is in Article 124 relating to curtailment of a Judge's tenure . Article 124 does not operate in the same field as Article 118 relating to procedure and conduct of business in Parliament  The word 'may' in clause (5) is no impediment to this view . 'Sometimes, the legislature uses the word "may" out of deference to the high status  Use of word 'motion' to indicate the process of investigation and proof in the [Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968] does not make it 'motion in the House  The law is, indeed, a civilised piece of legislation reconciling accountability of Judges and the values of judicial independence . The 1964 Bill vested the power to initiate the process of removal with  The minimum requirements of natural justice require that the Judge should have an opportunity of being heard, says learned counsel . Shri Jethmalani sought to point out that these proceedings could not  In Corpus Juris Secundum (Vol. 48A) refer- ring to standards of conduct, disabilities and privi- leges of Judges . Canons or codes are intended  The relief of a direction to restrain the Judge from discharging judicial functions cannot be granted . It is the entire Constitutional Scheme including the provisions relat- ing to the process of removal of a  Raj Birbal's and Sham Ratan Khandelwal's peti- tions were identical in both Raj Birabal's and Ratan . Khandelswal's averments  Members of the Supreme Court Bar Association have no locus standi in the matter . Legal standing to sue in public interest actions has gone under- gone a vast change over the years .  Writ Petition Nos. 491 and 541 of 1991 are dismissed by the Delhi High Court . Transfer Petition No. 278 of 1991 is allowed and transfer petition No. 1061 of 1991  The Committee for the investigation into the alleged misbehaviour of the third respondent was constituted on 12.3.1991 under the provi- 78 sions of the [Judges (  Long arguments were addressed by the learned counsel for the parties on the correct interpretation of Article 124(4) and (5) and the Act, and Mr. Sibal has contended that  The doctrine of Separation of Powers has not been strictly adhered to and there is some overlapping of powers in the gray areas . The courts' jurisdiction to examine matters involving adjudication of  The President has to be elected by the members of an electoral college as prescribed by Article 54, in the manner indicated in Article 55 . The matter relating to his impeachment has been entrusted by  Mr. Sibal laid great emphasis on the evidence of Mr. Setalvad and several other persons before the Joint Commit- tee on the Judges (inquiry) Bill, 1964  History of how an Act is understood forms part of the contemporanea expositio, and may be held to throw light on the legislative inten- tion . Justice may be blind  If on the other hand the Parliament's power was not subject to the enactment of a law, was it divested of this jurisdiction when it passed an Act? On what principle could the  Clause (4) does not state that the misbehaviour or incapacity of the Judge will have to be proved only in accordance with a law to be passed by the Parliament under clause  The [Judges (inquiry) Act, 1968] is a short enactment containing only seven sections . The expression "motion" which has not been defined in the Act is signifi  Section 3 does not specify as to how and to whom this notice of "motion" is to be addressed or handed over . Rule 189 says that if the Speaker admits notice of a "  Section 6(2), Rule 16(2) provides that "a copy of the motion admitted under sub-section (1) of section 3 shall be reproduced as an Annexure to  The pendency of the motion in the House, therefore, cannot be a ground to violate Article 121.26\. Mr Sibal, however, claimed that the members of the House are  The Speaker may consult the House on a legal issue which can be answered without reference to the conduct of the Judge in question, as for example, the issue (involved in the present case  An attempt was made by mr. Shanti Bhushan to derive some support 97 from that part of clause (4) of Article 124 which requires the voting in the two Houses  The Parliament can exer- cise its power without formally framing a law . It is a well established practice for a large body to entrust investiga- tions to a smaller  If the Committee is held to be functioning under the supervision and control of the parliament, it will be the parliament which will be in con- trol of the proceeding and not the Committee  The Australian Constitution Act does not specifically provide for any law to he made for regulating the procedure and investigation . The Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act (1900) has adopted rigid Separation of Powers  The learned counsel also placed a large number of decisions; both Indian and foreign and since I have not found them relevant, I have refrained from discussing them . None of the cases in 