 The appellant assessee sold his house in Ernakulam on 25th of December, 1965 to his daughter-in-law and five of his children for the same price of Rs  The order of re-assessment made by the Income Tax officer pursuant to the notice issued under section 148 was accordingly without jurisdiction . The task of interpretation of the statutory enactment is not a  The object and purpose of sub-section (2) was not to strike at honest and bonafide transactions where the consideration for the transfer was correctly disclosed by the assessee but to  Sub-section (2) is directed against cases of under-statement of consideration . Two circulars issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes dated 7th July, 1964 and 14th  The condition of difference of 15% or more between the fair market value of the capital asset and the consideration declared in respect of the transfer is to save the assessee from the rigour  The Court must obviously prefer a construction which renders the statutory provision constitutionally valid rather than that which makes it void . No amount was included by way of capital gains in respect of the transfer of  An order of reassessment was passed by the Income-tax officer including the sum of Rs. 48,500 as capital gains and bringing it to tax . Assessee raised objections against the  Section 5 defines the scope of 'total income' by providing that the total income of a person who is resident shall include all income from whatever source derived which is received or is deemed to  A literal reading of section 52 sub-section (2 but we do not think such a construction can be accepted . The task of interpretation of a statutory enactment is not a mechanical task .  Law should attract levy of tax on income which has neither arisen to the assessee nor has been received by him . We must eschew literalness in the interpretation of section 52 sub-  Sub-section (1) of section 52 is extremely restricted because it applies only where transferee is a person directly or indirectly connected with the assessee and the object of the under-  Sub-section (2) was enacted for the purpose of reaching those cases where the actual consideration received for the transfer was 'considerably more' than that declared or shown by the ass  Section 52 was originally a marginal note only to what is presently sub-section (I) and significantly enough, this marginal note remained unchanged even after the introduction . Subsection (2)  The 651 two circulars of the Central Board of Direct Taxes to which we have just referred are legally binding on the Revenue . They are clearly in the nature of contemporanea exp  The question arose in Navnitlal C. Jhaveri's case (supra) was in regard to the constitutional validity of sections 2(6A) (e)  Sub-section (2) has no application 653 in case of an honest and bonafide transaction where the consideration in respect of the transfer has been correctly declared or disclosed by the  Sub-section (2) cannot be invoked by A the Revenue unless there is under-statement of the consideration in respect of the transfer and the burden of proving that there is such under  Parliament cannot "choose to tax as income as item which in no rational sense can be regarded as a citizens income or even receipt" We find that sub-section (2) of 