 The election of Gadakh Yashwantrao Kankarrao as a member of the Lok Sabha from 39 Ahmednagar Parliamentary Constituency held in June 1991 has been  Vikhe Patil filed an election petition (E.P. No. 2 of 1991) at the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court praying that the election of Gadakh  The election of I Gadakh Yashwantrao Kankarrao from 39 Ahmednagar Parliamentary Constituency is hereby declared as null and void as the respondent Gadakh  Petitioner E.V. Vikhe Patil is declared as a candidate duly elected from the above parliamentary constituency . Petitioner be refunded his security deposit .  The petitioner states that the statements made by the first respondent that petitioner paid Rs 20 lakhs to the candidate of Janata Dal to withdraw from Ahmednagar Parliamentary Constituency are false  Petitioner had not paid Rs 50 lakhs nor any amount to Janata Dal Election Fund, nor paid Rs 20 lakhs to Shri B.G. Kolse Patil .  Sharad Pawar was accused of corrupt practice under Section 123(4) of the Representation of People Act, 1951 . The statements amounted to an allegation that the petitioner was ready to  It would hurt the head that Shri Balasaheb has taken a stand to test the self respect of the common man . He should be warned in clear terms that you have grown  Shri Ashok Desai said the making of these statements or at least the disparaging part thereof by Gadakh is not proved by any acceptable evidence . Shri Parasaran contended that  The growing influence of money power has also the effect of promoting criminalisation of politics, the authors say . Increasing electoral malpractices, of which some like boot capturing have led even to  We cannot accept that the alleged offending portions of the speeches of Gadakh and Sharad Pawar were educative of the electorate even if they do not constitute the corrupt practice under Section 123  The scope of an appeal under Section 116-A of the Representation of the People Act is as wide as in a civil appeal . The Court has to dispose of the appeal by exercising  The meaning of the expression "statement of fact" was a point of considerable debate at the Bar . Several statements attributed to Gadakh and Sharad Pawar relate to apprehensions about Vik  The view we have taken finds support from the meaning of 'fact' in the realm of jurisprudence . It is a different matter if the statement amounts to an opinion relating to  Some of the requirements of Section 123(4) are matters of inference . This is the gist of the law on the point and is reiterated in the subsequent decisions of this Court .  The question, therefore, is : Whether the declaration of Gadakh's election to be void is sustainable and so also the naming of Sharad Pawar under Section 99 of the R.  An election petition was brought by Shri Parasaran against Vikhe Patil . The petition alleges that Gadakh's statements were made by Sharad Pawar in the 1990s . The  The essential requirements of the corrupt practice under Section 123(4) are : (1) publication by the candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate  The statement alleging payment of Rs 50 lakhs to the Janata Dal election fund is alleged to have been made in the meetings at Sonai on April 30, 1991 and Ahmednagar  Shri Ashok Desai argued that a strong rumour to this effect was then afloat which together with the circumstances in which B.G. Kolse Patil, the 714  Admitted he did not believe the information given to him by Congress workers that B.G. Kolse Patil was going to withdraw from South A'nagar Constituency A  Gadakh was never questioned about his belief on this aspect prior to making these statements or prior to the actual withdrawal by B.G. Kolse Patil from South Ahmednagar Const  The making of the statement of fact alleging payment of Rs 20 718 lakhs by Vikhe Patil to B.G. Kolse Patil, its falsity and the want  The High Court's conclusion to this effect is, therefore, sustainable only for this reason alone . It follows that all the requirements of Section 123(4) are satisfied and the false statement  Shri Parasaran, learned counsel for Sharad Pawar, contended that the notice under Section 99 is invalid as there was no occasion for issuance of that notice on the material present .  Sharad Pawar said Vikhe Patil filed his nomination from the South constituency instead of the North because it was a poor region and a scarcity area . The indication was that any such  Sharad Pawar's statements do not constitute the corrupt practice under Section 123(4) of the R.P. Act . Standard Power v. Damodar Talyaba:  The degree of responsibility and the level of electioneering expected of the top leadership was wanting in these speeches . The High Court has taken the view that the election of Gadakh being void Vik  The mere fact that Vikhe Patil secured the next highest number of votes after Gadakh is not sufficient to declare him elected on the conclusion that Gadakh's election is void for commission 