 The respondent sued the State of Bihar for a declaration that the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, was ultra vires, void and unconstitutional . The State made an application under 0.  The Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 (which we shall refer to as the Act) received the assent of the President on September 11, 1950 . Rani Sonabati Kum  State of Bihar issued a notification declaring that the Handwa Raj Estate belonging to the respondent, had passed to and became vested in the State under the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act  The only "notification" contemplated by the provisions of the Act immediately relevant to the suit, was a notification under s. 3(1) Such a notification has the statutory effect of  We are of the opinion that there is no indication of the contention now urged by learned Counsel that the State Government was directed to abstain from publishing a notification under s. 3(1  Title Suit 40 of 1950 was properly laid and that the Court had jurisdiction to entertain it . But learned Counsel urged that it did not automatically follow that the State was amenable to proceedings .  The observations regarding the scope of the liability of Government were wholly orbiter . In England, there is a specific rule providing for sequestration of the corporate property of the party concerned, where  Article 300 of the Constitution permits suits, which before the Constitution could have been filed against the Central and Provincial Governments respectively, to be filed against both the Union and the State . Article 300  The entire argument on this part of the case was based on the difference between the language employed in cl. (1) extracted above and . (3) of the rule making provision for  The argument rested on the terms of Art. 154(1) of the Constitution reading: " The executive power of the State shall be vested in the Governor and shall be exercised by him  It is fundamental to the system of polity that India has adopted and which is embodied in the Constitution that the Courts of the land are vested with the powers of interpreting the law and applying 