 The High Court ruled that the suit was barred by res judicata in view of the judgment of the High Court on the writ petition . In appeal to the Supreme Court, HELD  The appellant stood surety for a number of contractors who had taken contracts in 1947 for felling timber trees and removing timber in various forests in the erstwhile State of Baria .  The High Court dismissed the writ on July 22, 1952 that there was no substance in the contention that the petitioners  pay the balance amount due from them . The petition was misconceived  The High Court held that it was a wrong assumption of the appellant that the attached goods were not to be sold without his knowledge and consent . The contention was raised was that the contractors were  Appeal was dismissed by the High Court because another remedy was open and stated that his contentions were not upheld . Issue No. 8A was "Is the suit barred by res judic  The High Court on the writ petition mentions in the early part of the order :"It would appear that the Baria State had auctioned the teak . the . terms and conditions  The issue of a writ by a High Court was discretionary as it may refuse to exercise its jurisdiction under Art. 226 as for instance when the party applying for the writ was guilty of l  It would be really dangerous if it be held that a decision so arrived at in proceedings in a writ petition does not bar a subsequent suit for the decision of the same matter in controversy .  Section 2 provided that the Civil Courts would not take cognizance of any suit brought on a cause of action which had been heard and determined by a Court of competent jurisdiction in a former  In Krishna Behari Roy's Case the Privy Council stated that the expression 'cause of action' in s. 2 of Act VIII of 1859 could not be taken in its literal  The general principle of res judicata has been applied to suits even though the decision on the same matter in controversy had been previously given by a competent Court in proceedings which were not suits  Janakirama Iyer's Case said decision in previous suit could not operate as res judicata in accordance with the provisions of s. 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure .  Privy Council held that a decision in contentious proceedings under the Probate and Administration Act, 1881, was binding in a subsequent suit upon the parties to the earlier suit, including a  The rule of res judicata is meant to give finality to a decision arrived at after due contest and after hearing the parties interested in the controversy . This case made the decision in  The rule of res judicata can be invoked only in cases where a dispute between parties has been referred to a court of competent jurisdiction, there has been a contest between the parties before  Decision in a writ petition can be res judicata only with respect to matters which have been decided on merits by the High Court or by this Court . Bombay High Court has held in  S. 26 says every suit shall be instituted by the presentation of a plaint or in such other manner as may be prescribed . The most essential condition is that the matter in question should have  1 S.C.R. 154. [1953] L.A. 129.                (2) L. R. 66 .                (3) [1952] 