 Application for special leave to appeal arose out of a suit instituted on April 22, 1949 and valued at Rs. 11,400 . The High Court in appeal reversed that decision on February 10  The decision in Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v. Irving on which such a theory was sought to be founded was neither supportable in principle nor warranted by the authorities it relied on  The suit out of which this application arises was instituted on April 22, 1949, in the sub-court of Bapatla, which was then within the jurisdiction of the Madras  When the Indian Independence Act, 1947 was passed by Parliament it became necessary to enlarge the jurisdiction of the Federal Court to entertain appeals which previously went to His Majesty in Council . Section 3 of  An Act called the Excise Tariff Act, 1902 required the appellants to pay pound 20,100 excise duty on 6,700 tons of sugar . The appellants disputed the claim  The question was whether this section destroyed the finality that had attached to the orders when they were made and gave any right of appeal at all from the orders of the High Court made before  Indira Sohanlal v. Custodian of Evacuee Property, Delhi and others (1) In their Lordships' judgment, therefore, the petitioners in  No right to obtain a determination with the attribute of finality can be predicated in favour of a litigant on the institution of the action . By the very terms of section 5  A widow's suit was valued at rupees 14,600 according to the provisions of the Court Fees Act (VII of 1870) then in force . On April 18, 1922, the  The North-Western Provinces Tenancy Act, 1901 (U.P. Act II of 1901) was in force . Section 177 of that Act gave a right of appeal from  A Full Bench of the Lahore High Court adopted and applied the Privy Council decision in the case of Kirpa Singh, v. Ajaipal Singh and others (4) It  The right to enter the superior court is, for the present purpose deemed to arise to a litigant before any decision has been given by the inferior court . The right must be a  In re Vasudeva Samiar (1) was also concerned with the effect of the amended el. 15 of the Letters Patent on a preexisting right of appeal . In re  The Court was bound to admit the appeal whether appellant deposited the amount recoverable in execution of the decree or not . By requiring such deposit as a condition precedent to the admission of the appeal  The case of Ganpat Rai Hiralal v. Aggarwal Chamber of Commerce Ltd. (1), is also instructive. There were two winding up proceedings regarding two companies,  The right of appeal is not a mere matter of procedure but is a substantive right . It is to be governed by the law prevailing at the date of the institution of the suit or proceeding  In construing the Articles relating to the appellate jurisdiction of this Court it is well to remember the several categories of persons who were at the date of the Constitution, interested in the right  Constitution makers knew that this vested right was governed by cl. 39 of the Letters Patent read with the [Federal Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947] and  Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, came into force simultaneously with the Constitution on January 26, 1950 . The Constitution by Art. 395 repealed the Government of India Act and thereby abolished the  The old law continues to exist for the purpose of supporting the pre-existing right of appeal the old law must govern the exercise and enforcement of that right . The continuance of the old  Appeal to the Supreme Court was competent by virtue of the provisions of Art. 135 of the Constitution as the jurisdiction and powers in relation to the matter in dispute were exercisable by the Federal  The case was filed in 1945 in the court of the subordinate Judge of Kakinada for partition and possession . The value of the suit was over Rs. 10,000 but below Rs  Canada Cement Co.Ltd. v. East Montreal (Town of) (supra). Case was based on the decision in the case of Canada Cements Co. (Town  The case of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving (supra) can give no support to the conclusion of the Full Bench of the Madras High Court . The  The Constitution is prospective and, therefore, the judgment, decree or final order contemplated therein can only be a judgment passed after the Constitution . But if by reason of the theory that the Constitution  The judges of the Madras High Court did not regard that language as sufficient to cover the case of a judgment which was passed after the amended cl. 15 of the Letters Patent came into  It will be shown hereafter that it is not necessary to put upon Art. 133 such a wide construction as is suggested by this later Madras Full Bench decision . The learned judges of the  The words " judgment, decree or final order" occurring in ss. 109 and 110 of the Code as 538 adapted must be read as a judgment made after the date of the adaptation  In our opinion jurisdiction and powers in relation to a judgment, decree or final order to be passed by the High Court after the Constitution must be 'held to have been 'exercisable  The parties had a vested right of appeal to the Federal Court under the provisions of the old Civil Procedure, Code read with the Government of India Act, 1935, and the [Federal Court  Article 135 is as follows: "Until Parliament by law otherwise provides, the Supreme Court shall also have jurisdiction and powers with respect to any matter to which the provisions of article 133 or article  Petitioner's contention of appeal rests on decision in Colonal 546 Sugar Refining Company v. Irving . Appeal to the Privy Council against the judgment of the Supreme Court of Queensland  No one has asserted that a right of appeal is to be determined on the law as it stood on the date of the transaction which -forms the foundation for those proceedings . If the right  The House of Lords held that an appeal was not a matter relating to practice or procedure, and must be conferred by the legislature itself . The decision in In re Athlumney (  Is it to be expected that the British Indian Courts would hold contrary to the decision in Colonial Sugar Refining Company v. Irving (supra) that a right of appeal arises, not  Colonial Sugar Refining Company v. Irving (supra) is to be accepted as laying down the correct law, but it does not go far enough to support the petitioner . The right  The right must be a right to take the matter to Court C in due course of the existing law," Rankin C. J. who delivered the judgment of the Court, stated the  Appeals from Court A to Court B, from Court B to Court C and again from Court C to Court D are distinct proceedings independent of one another . The notion that a suitor has  Bombay Civil Courts Act came into force on March 19, 1869, and under that Act appeals in suits exceeding Rs. 5,000 lay to the High Court of Bombay . Appeal against  Deb Narain Dutt v. Narendra Krishna (1) argued that a right to -prefer the property attached in execution of the decree passed under Act VIII of 1869 . The  A right of appeal can also be taken away by it expressly or by necessary intendment . The Privy Council upheld this contention in Canada Cement Co. v. East Montreal (Town  The Court of Review had not been abolished in Canada Cement Co. v. East Montreal (Town of) (supra), nevertheless, the principle that on the 'abolition of  Article 133 is the provision of law under which appeals can be preferred under the Constitution from judgments, decrees and final orders of the High Courts in the territory of India . It is under  A second appeal presented to a High Court under s. 100 of the Civil Procedure Code does not cease to be an appeal under that section, because it does not disclose any grounds on which  It has been uniformly held in America that when a right of appeal is given conditioned on the subjectmatter being of a certain valuation, that provision must be interpreted as negativing a right  The Privy Council held that the appeal was not competent under s. 64 of the Act . The appeal had not been brought when the statute was passed, although, the proceedings before the  Appeals will be competent against judgments, 574 decrees or final orders made in proceedings instituted before the Constitution when made by High Courts in Part A States . No appeal will lie against judgments 