 The High Court allowed the election petition on three grounds (1) that the appellant committed a corrupt practice under a 123(1), Representation of the People Act, 1951 in that he  The High Court correctly adumbrated the legal propositions but had not correctly applied them to the facts and evidence . It readily accepted ll the evidence of two witnesses on one issue while rejecting  The High Court was wrong in its approach that since the pamphlet contained anti-Muslim propaganda it would not have been printed by the respondent . Most of the witnesses for the respondent who stated that  Election petition must be filed within 45 days from the date of the election of the returned candidate . Amendment would amount to extending the period of limitation peremp orily fled by the A  Appeal arises out of the general elections held to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly in March 1972 from Gooty Assembly Constituency . Venkata Reddy, T. Papa Sab  The High Court framed as many as 35 issues in the present case . After taking the evidence of the parties the Court decided all the issues against the contesting respondent except issues Nos. 7  An election is a politically sacred public act, not of one person or of one official, but of the collective will of the whole constituency . Courts naturally must respect this public expression secretly written  Issue No. 7 was cast by the Trial Judge thus: "Did the 1st respondent (the appellant) commit a corrupt practice under s. 123(1) of the Representation  The last part of the averment which forms the subject-matter of issue No. 8 has not been accepted by the High Court . It was also alleged that the appellant took the refusal  P.W. 34 Mustafa gives a specific reason why he had not accompanied the contesting respondent to the Taluk office, namely, that he had some work at the Railway Station  The appellant is said to have offered Rs.25,000 if the contesting respondent agreed not to contest the election . P.W. 33 Chinna Bheemanna told the  The offer of bribe was undoubtedly a criminal act and the appellant would have faced a grave risk in making such an offer . The appellant was not fully acquainted with Sultan the contesting respondent though  An offer of bribe or payment of actual bribe are both electoral offences amounting to corrupt practices which are to be visited with similar consequences . If bribe was to be made it should have been  P.W. 16 narrates an incident at the Travellers Bungalow at Anantapur which happened before the general elections of 1972 in the presence of Challa Subbar  The offer of bribe at Gutty Taluk office as alleged by P.W. 16 and P.Ws. 29 & 33 was made by the appellant to P. Ws.  P.W. 34 Mustafa was playing a leading part in the drama enacted on February 4, 1972 . He was responsible for getting the programme from the contesting respondent and collecting his  P.W. 16 has admitted in his evidence that on 15th or 16th of March, 1972 the Returning officer had suggested to the contesting respondent to file an election petition if  Issues Nos. 26 & 27 are mentioned in paragraph-39 of the election petition and relate to two separate and independent allegations . They relate to the distribution of objectionable pamphlets of the nature  Section 81 of the Act clearly provides that the election petition shall be filed within forty-five days from the date of election of the returned candidate . It is obvious that any allegation of corrupt  A single corrupt practice committed by the candidate, by his election agent or by another person with the consent of the candidate or . another person is fatal to the election, the case must be  The election petition was filed before the High Court on April 20, 1972 i.e. about a month and a few days after the results of the election were announced . The witness stated  The learned Judge in approaching the veracity of the witnesses produced by the contesting respondent on this point has attached great importance to those witnesses who have themselves produced the pamphlet Ext. A-  The High Court seems to think that as the pamphlet contained communal propaganda and incited the Hindus against the Muslims the same could not be printed by the contesting respondent who was a Muslim himself  P.W. Gooty: "Everywhere Muslims are given importance by the congress and the Congress is ruining the future of Hindus" Judge: "The learned Judge has disbelieved  The only other witness who remains is P.W. 2', who, as we have already pointed out while dealing with the allegation of bribery, is the most interested witness and a staunch  Four respectable witnesses have been examined by the appellant which throws a flood of light on the question . R.W. 2 was a sub-Inspector of Police at Gooty  The witness was shown Ext. A-l and he has categorically stated that no such pamphlet ever came to his notice either 16-L522 SCI/76 478 during the  The learned Judge chose to act on the evidence of these witnesses because according to him P.Ws. 35 & 37 had corroborated the evidence . The appellant has emphatically denied having ever appointed  P.W. 27 does not appear to be reliable, because he admits that he was brought to Hyderabad fol' giving evidence and stayed there for 10 days . The evidence of P  The evidence of the witnesses referred to above does not prove that the appellant had distributed the pamphlet Ext. A-l to any body in Yadiki on February 28, 1972 as alleged by  Venkata Reddy came 483 to the village in a jeep and asked the witness and other persons A to vote for him . But the appellant is said to have made an  Witness says he showed the pamphlet given to him by the appellant to Sultan Sultan and he was asked by Sultan to preserve . the pamphlet so that it may be used in the Court as and  The learned Judge appears to have completely overlooked this aspect of the matter which introduces an intrinsic infirmity in the evidence of the witnesses . We are not in a position to place any reliance  The last limb of the case comprises the alleged distribution of the pamphlet Ext. A-l by the appellant . P.W. 24 is Thirupathi Rao a registered medical practitioner  The next witness admits that he voted for the Congress candidate Sultan and supported his candidature during the election . Ramchandra Gaud threatened the witness that he would destroy the partner ship business  The last witness on this point is P.W. 36 Abdul Jabbar . According to this witness, the appellant had come to Guntakal where the witness stayed, gave him  Neither the contesting respondent mentioned these facts in his petition giving the full details nor in the material particulars nor did he take any action against the appellant by reporting the matter about the pamphlet to  The appeal is accordingly allowed and the order of the single Judge declaring the election of the appellant Venkata Reddy void and setting aside the same is hereby quashed . The appellant would 