 In 1946, the Chief Director of Purchases (Disposals) invited tenders for purchasing war surplus American Cigarettes . Government decided to cancel contract with respect to undelivered cigarettes  The letter of acceptance of the tender signed by the Director of Purchases fulfilled all the requirements of s. 175 (3) of the Government of India Act . The appellant was not pre  An appeal against the order of the High Court of Punjab in Punjab in First Appeal No. 75 of 1951 . The respondent took delivery of 29,93,597 packets of cigarettes and paid  Government of India had appointed Bakshi Shiv Charan Singh as their arbitrator, reserving full liberty to take all pleas before the arbitrator including the plea that no dispute between the parties  Court in Seth Bikhraj Jaipuria v. Union of India (1), held in dealing with the validity of contract which did not conform to the requirements of s. 175  The High Court held that the Government of India waived the objection as to the illegality of the contract and could not therefore raise any such objection in an application for setting aside the award .  An award is bad on the ground of error of law on the face of it, when in the award itself or in a document actually incorporated in it, there is found some legal proposition  There is no reference to any specific questions to be referred to the arbitrators, nor can the filing of pleadings in support of their respective cases by the parties pursuant to the direction given  Dispute was whether net value of work executed and materials on site up to and including March 11, 1929, had been truly assessed . Contractor alleged net value available for certification on that  The Government disposed of some stock of cigarettes at the rate of Re.-/1/9 per packet . The umpire awarded Rs.1,32,417/10/- under the  Claim for interest was discussed by the umpire in paragraph (ix) of his award: "Applying the principles on which compensation is assessed, I have come to the conclusion 186 that  The interest awarded to the contractor could not in law be awarded under the Interest Act of 1839 . Bose, J, observed that an arbitrator is not a court within the meaning  Interest was therefore allowed on a view of the law which appeared on the face of the award to be erroneous . In respect of the goods which had been returned by him, he could claim 