 The landlord was entitled to a decree for eviction under section 13(1)(e) of the Rajasthan Premises (Control of Rent and Eviction) Act, 1950: Section  The appellant was carrying on his own advertising business . The Court set aside the order of eviction . Allowing the appeal and setting aside the eviction .  Appeal by special leave is against the judgment and order of the High Court of Rajasthan dated 23.2. 1988 . The appellant is the tenant in the suit premises. The appellant  The High Court passed a decree for eviction under section 13(1)(e) of the Rajasthan Premises (Control of Rent and Eviction) Act, 1950, hereina  The High Court found that the defendant had parted with part of the terrace to Paramount Services . This according to the High Court, was wrong as it had been clearly prohibited in the lease  The defendant has no right to place the Board of the Advertising Agency on the roof of the shop without permission of the plaintiff . Para 6 of the written Statement reads as follows: "  Hindi Original "9.9. VAD PATRA KA PAIRA 9 SARVATHA ASWIKAR HAl. The defendant is in full control and possession of  It may be mentioned that the plaintiff had not subjected himself to crossexami- nation in spite of the order of the Court after the remand, therefore, it would not be  The High Court was wrong, it was urged, in accepting the plea of the respondent of parting with possession only on the basis of the letter dated 20th January, 1977 (Ex.  The learned District Judge came to the conclusion that the board was fixed to the front of the side of the roof of the disputed shop . The judge concluded that by Ex. 6 no portion  The board was used for publicity and paintings and other expenses were of the tenant . Therefore, it was the tenant who was carrying on the business . The learned trial Judge noted that it was  A tenant granted a licence for seven years at an annual rent to a bill-posting company to erect advertisement hoarding on part of the land . The company was granted free and uninterrupted  Under the Rajasthan Act, such kind of user does not take away tenant's rights . Under the said Act, 787 the tenant must be guilty either of an assignment or sub  The Rent Controller did not accept the plea of the appellants that the business which was being carried on in their portion was the joint business . The Rent Restriction Act is to protect dwell  In the premises, the High Court's order of eviction cannot be upheld . Unless the tenant has infarcted the prohibition of the Act, he is not liable to be evicted 