 Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of the learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court setting aside the . judgment of acquittal recorded by learned Principal, Assistant Sessions Judge, Tir  State preferred appeal against acquittal . High Court found that the reasoning indicated by the Trial Court to direct the acquittal cannot be maintained .  A bleeding lacerated wound 10cm x 5 cm x 4cm on medical aspect of right forearm muscles and (NC) exposed . A bleeding incised wound 15 cm x 6 cm  The ground of acquittal as recorded by trial Court is not at all a proper ground for an acquittal . No law prohibits the police officer from recording complaint relating to the occurrence, that  An appeal from an order of acquittal is not open to the appellate court to interfere with the findings of fact recorded by the trial Judge . Both questions of fact and of law are open  A petition was presented to His Majesty in Council for leave to appeal on the ground that conflicting views had been expressed by the High Courts in different parts of India . The Committee considered the scheme  In [?CITATION?], a two-Judge Bench observed that in an appeal under Section 417 of the (old) Code, the High Court had full power to review the  An appellate court has full power to review the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded . The principles laid down in Sheo Swarup case afford a correct guide for the  The evil of acquitting a guilty person 31 light-heartedly, as a learned author (Glanville Williams in Proof of Guilt) goes much beyond the simple fact that just one  The High Court has full powers to review the evidence upon which an order of acquittal is based . The paramount consideration of the court should be to avoid miscarriage of justice, the Court said  A duty is cast on the High Court while reversing an order of acquittal to examine and discuss the reasons given by the trial court to acquit the accused and then to dispel those reasons  A reasonable doubt is not an imaginary, trivial or a merely possible doubt, but a fair doubt based upon reason and common sense . Law cannot afford any favourite other than truth, law cannot