 Appeal Nos.1969-70/2010 have been preferred by Lt. Col. Prasad Shrikant Purohit challenging the judgment in Criminal Appeal No.867 of 2009  The case was originally investigated by ATS and final report was submitted on 30.01.2009 and supplementary charge-sheet vide MCOCA No.8/2011 was filed on 21  In Jalna case, charge-sheet was filed against A-1 for offences punishable under Sections 307, 436, 324, 323, 120-B, 153-A read with 34  Mr. U.R. Lalit contended that the application of MCOCA as against the appellants was wholly inappropriate and consequently, the order of the Division Bench and subsequent order of  Mr. Triloki Nath Razdan, learned counsel appearing for the appellants in the appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No.9303/2011 while adopting the  The learned senior counsel contended that the order of the trial Court dated 31.07.2009 discharging all the accused was justified and the Division Bench ought not to have interfered with the said  The Division Bench was justified in setting aside the order of the Special Court . In support of his submission that taking a fresh cognizance is not a requirement of law in a case where  In Parbhani and Jalna reference needs to be made only to Sections 190, 200, 201, 202 read with Section 4 Cr.P.C. and when on a complaint  Ajay Eknath Rahirkar filed Criminal Application No.556/2011 which was allowed by the Bombay High Court and he was granted bail by imposing certain conditions . As far as  The prime provisions which are relevant under MCOCA are Sections 2(1) (d), (e) & (f), 3, 21 (4) (b), 23 (  Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973: "No Special Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act without the previous sanction of the police officer not below the rank of Additional Director  A Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence on complaint shall examine upon oath the complainant and the witnesses present, if any, and the substance of such examination shall be reduced to writing  The existing legal framework, that is the penal and procedural laws and the adjudicatory system, were found to be inadequate to curb or control the menace of 'organized crime' The Objects  Section 17 prescribes Special Rules of evidence notwithstanding anything contrary contained in Cr.P.C. or the Indian Evidence Act for the purposes of trial and punishment for offences under MCOCA  A-7 namely Rakesh Dattaray Dhawade was involved who is also a member of the present gang and consequently the definition of 'continuing unlawful activity' is  A-7 is the key person to be noted as it was with reference to his involvement in the earlier two bomb blast cases, namely, Parbhani and Jalna . There is  Mr. Anil Singh, learned ASG appearing for respondent-State and Mr. Mariarputham, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State of Maharashtra and NIA contended that the  Two earlier cases which would attract a punishment of more than three years and prohibited by law, undertaken singly or jointly as a member of an organized crime syndicate or on its behalf,  Police Report as stated in Section 173(2) (i) is filed before a Magistrate under Section 190(1) (b), irrespective of the nature of offence, the said  Magistrate or empowered second class Magistrate having taken cognizance of an offence based on a police report would fulfill the requirement of that part of the definition under Section 2(1)(  A Special Judge while trying an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, cannot summon another person and proceed against him in the purported exercise of power under Section 319 CrPC if no  Darshan Singh Ram Kishan (supra), in paragraph 8, with particular reference to Section 190, this Court has held as under: "8\. As provided by Section  The word (cognizance) is of indefinite import in criminal law . It merely means "become aware of" and when used with reference to a court or a Judge,  The term 'cognizance' has to be given the same meaning wherever it appears in Chapter XXXVI. It bears repetition to state that taking cognizance is entirely an act  The contention was that though A-7 was implicated both in Parbhani and Jalna such implication was not in pursuance of his role as a member of an 'organized crime synd  The High Court does not say that the appellant has abetted Telgi or had conspired with him . The findings of the High Court as against the appellant are attributable to allegations of  A-7 had a nexus with the member of an 'organized crime syndicate' of the two earlier cases, namely, Parbhani and Jalna and also direct involvement in the  The word "insurgency" does not find mention in UAPA even after the 2004 and 2008 Amendments . The dictionary meaning of expression 'insurgent' is raising an active  "Promoting insurgency" is used to denote a possible driving force for "organised crime", the court said . MCOCA does not punish "insurgency" per se,  In respect of the appellant in Criminal Appeal No. 1971/2010, namely, A-7, there is no scope even for the limited purpose of Section 21(4)(b)  Criminal Appeal Nos.1969-70/2010 as well as the appeal arising out of SLP(Crl.) No.8132 of 2010 by making reference to their personal grievances are  In due course.  shall be listed in due course .