 A.K. Ganguly, J. Swatanter Kumar, J., J. P. K. G. Kumar: 'I am unable to persuade myself to concur with  The golden rule of interpretation is the rule of plain language, while preferring the interpretation which furthers the cause of the Statute rather than that which defeats the objects or purposes of the Act  The High Court relied upon the judgment of Satendra Prasad Jain (supra) and dismissed the petition holding that the provisions of Section 11A of the Act are not attracted  The High Court, in the impugned judgment, has directed the respondent No.1 to ensure that the Award is made as early as possible, preferably within a period of three months  Section 17(3A) of the Act was to be obligatory upon the authorities concerned to pay 80 per cent 18 of the estimated compensation to the land owners, prior to taking possession of  It is impossible to lay down any general rule for determining whether a provision is imperative or directory . The use of the words `shall' or `may', respectively would ordinarily indicate imperative or  A Constitution Bench of this Court in [?CITATION] decided the issue observing that law which creates public duties is directory but if it confers private rights it is mandatory . Re  The word `shall' would normally be mandatory while the word `may' would be directory . The Courts should consider its nature, design and the consequences which could flow from construing  It is primarily the context in which the words are used which will be of significance and relevance for deciding this issue . This Court in the case of Devinder Singh (supra) held  Section 17(3A) of the Act makes it obligatory on the part of the authority concerned to tender/pay 80 per cent of the compensation for the acquired land, as estimated by  Section 17(3A) unambiguously provides a complete mechanism of taking possession and the requirement of payment of 80 per cent of estimated compensation to the claimants . The legislature has provided for  It would be just and fair to read into the provisions of the Section 17(3A) of the Act as imposing an obligation on the part of the authorities concerned/the Collector to  The Court declared that the provisions of Section 17(3A) of the Act were not mandatory and their non-compliance would not vitiate the whole acquisition proceedings .  A challenge was to a notification issued under Section 4(1) of the 55 Act for the land which was subsequently needed for the Metro Project in Delhi . The challenge was primarily based on  The Court would have to read into the provisions of Section 17(3A) consequences and a strict period of limitation within which amount should be deposited, which has not been provided by the  The claimants/owners of land should be and ought to be entitled to certain additional benefits within the legislative framework of the Act . The legislature has even taken care of providing higher rates of interest  The owners/claimants should be entitled to receive, on the strength of these provisions and alike, the interest payable 64 under the proviso to Section 34 i.e. interest at  Section 11A of the Act provides for discharge of obligations within specified time and there are serious consequences of such non-fulfillment . This would clearly lead to the conclusion that the provisions  The High Court held that Section 11-A does not apply to cases of acquisitions under Section 17 where possession was already taken and the land stood vested in the State . The view of the  The award must be made within a period of two years of the declaration, failing which the acquisition proceedings would lapse and the land would revert to the landholder . The argument raised on behalf  A Constitution Bench of this Court (to which I was a member) in the recent judgment in the case of [?CITATION?], while dealing with the provisions of Sections 27  Court in Avinash Sharma's case (supra) held as under : "But these observations do not assist the case of the appellants. When possession of the land is taken  Court was primarily concerned with three main questions: What was the effect of possession of land subsequent to notification issued under Section 4(1) of the Act? Whether the provisions of Section 11  The award has been made on 9th June, 2008, much after the expiry of the prescribed period of two years under Section 11A of the Act . The main thrust of submissions  May George (supra), a Bench of this Court has expressed the view that the notification under Section 9(1) of the Act as contemplated under Section 17(1), of the  The writ petitions in question were filed in August 2006, i.e., more than four years subsequent to the issuance of the 98 notification under Section 4.17(1) and 17  The only relief sought by Shri A.S. Naidu was for quashing the notification issued under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 . Neither the High Court  The declaration under Section 6 was made on 22nd August, 2002, the notice under Section 9(1) had been issued and possession of the land was taken on 4th February,  The doctrine of `full faith and credit' applies to the acts done by the officers in the hierarchy of the State . They have to faithfully discharge their duties to elongate public purpose .  The State Government must ensure that there is no harassment, hardship or inequality caused to the owners/persons interested in the lands acquired by the State, in exercise of its powers of eminent  The Central Government and all the State Governments shall issue appropriate and uniform guidelines, within 8 weeks from today, to ensure that the land owners and the persons interested in the lands cquired  The appellant's land, admeasuring about 2-06-1/3-0 Bighas situated in Village Haldauni, Tehsil and Pargana Dad  The rest of the allegations made in the writ petition, except the dates in question, have been disputed . The Governor of State of Uttar Pradesh issued a notification under Section 4(1)  Under article 366 (10) of the Constitution the Act was an `existing law' made before the commencement of the Act . Article 366(10) is clear that notwithstanding the provision of  A Bill for amendment to the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on the 30th April, 1982 . The same has not been passed by either House of  The right to enjoy property without unlawful deprivation is in truth a "personal" right, whether the "property" in question be a welfare check, a home, or a savings account .  The majority of the Constitution Bench, speaking through Shah, J. analysed the different features of Fundamental Rights in para 52 at page 289 of the report and came to a conclusion that part III  The Court in Gurnam Kaur (supra) relied on the decision of the English Court in [?CITATION?]. In Gerard, the only point argued was on  Section 17 of the Act seeks to authorize acquisition and taking over of possession without hearing the land owner . This Court held that the right of hearing which is given under Section 5A of the  The key to the opening of every law is the spirit of the animus of the law maker - the spirit and the intention of law makers . The Court must take into consideration other enact  Every word in a statute is to be examined in its context, says Justice Bhagwati . Judicial opinion is uniformly in favour of strict construction of an expropriatory law which admittedly  The principle is that all statutory conditions imposed as condition precedent to entry on lands must be fulfilled . The same principles have been laid down in Cooley's `A Treatise on the Constitutional  An earlier decision [?CITATION?], this Court while dealing with the concept of eminent domain and right to property in Article 300A held as follows (para 50, p  Section 17(3A of the Act is a law which has been enacted to prevent deprivation of property rights guaranteed under Article 300A . Shah, J., speaking for the majority opinion,  Appeal is allowed with costs as aforesaid . All questions relating to compensation in the proceeding are kept open 170 for both parties .