 The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered preliminary enquiries (PEs) against unknown public servants, inter alia, of the offences under the PC Act relating to allocation  The DSPE Act was brought into force in 1946 . The CBI was established on 01.04.1963 vide Government Resolution issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India .  The constitutional validity of Section 6A is pending before the Constitution Bench of this Court . The challenge is based on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution as it is the case of  Attorney General submits that Section 6A is in the nature of procedure established by law for the purposes of Article 21 and where consequences follow in criminal law for an accused, the Court is  The aim of investigation is ultimately to search for truth and bring the offender to the book . The exercise of the power of investigation by the CBI is regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure .  The abuse of public office for private gain has grown in scope and scale and hit the nation badly . Corruption reduces revenue; it slows down economic activity and holds back economic growth . The monitoring  The investigation/investigation monitored by the court does not mean that the court supervises such investigation/inquiry . To supervise would mean to observe and direct the execution of a task  Once this Court is in seisin of a cause or matter before it, it has power to issue any order or direction to do complete justice in the matter . This legal position finds support  A direction by the High Court to CBI to investigate a cognizable offence alleged to have been committed within the territory of the State will neither impinge upon the federal structure of the Constitution nor  The principle of law laid down in respect of Section 6, in our view, can be extended . If Section 6 necessitates the prior sanction of the State Government before investigation is carried out  The need for independence of judiciary from the executive influence does not arise in the case of officers belonging to the executive, says Justice Lodha . The decision in K.Veerasw  A constitutional court monitors an investigation by the State police or the Central Bureau of Investigation only in public interest . No constitutional court desires to monitor an inquiry or an investigation, nor does it encourage  A general impression appears to have gained ground that the Central investigating agencies concerned are subject to extraneous pressures and have been indulging in dilatory tactics in not bringing the guilty to book .  Some believed that the allocations were not made with bona fide motives and that the whole gamut of allocations ought to be impartially investigated by the CBI . Given the importance of the case and  Section 6A specifically covers officers of the Central Government, above the rank of Joint Secretary . The competent authority in these cases will be the Minister in charge in the Government of India .  The interplay between Section 6A of the Act and a constitutional court monitored investigation should be such as to protect senior government officials from frivolous and vexatious complaints and at the same time  In more than one-third cases of request for prosecution in corruption cases against public servants, sanctions have not been accorded . Case raises important constitutional issues as well as some questions relating to  The question arose was whether the High Court could direct the CBI to investigate a cognizable offence, which is alleged to have taken place within the territorial jurisdiction of a State, without the consent  The case required innovation of a procedure within the constitutional scheme of judicial review to permit intervention by the court to find a solution to the problem . It has also generated awareness of the need of  An Act to provide for the constitution of a Central Vigilance Commission to inquire or cause inquiries to be conducted into offences alleged to have been committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 .  The proposition does not relate to the powers of the Court under Article 142, but only to what is or is not complete justice of a cause or matter . No question of lack of jurisdiction