 Petitioner's grievance is that the freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the newspaper industry is not keeping balance with the protection of children from harmful and disturbing materials . Article 19(1)(  In Times of India dated 1.8.2005 an article titled "Porn In potter VI" was published, copy of which is annexed with the petition . Children who were reading  Clause (3) of Article 15 enables the State to make special provisions inter alia for children . Article 24 provides that no child below the age of 14 shall be employed to work in  Both parts III and IV of the Constitution enumerate certain moral rights . The tasks of protecting and realizing these rights is imposed upon all organs of the state, namely, legislative, executive and  The State which has the duty to protect the minors by appropriate legislation or executive orders has failed in its duty . The Press Council of India feel the necessity of some strong and effective measure to  The Press Council enjoys only limited authority, with its power limited to giving directions, censure etc. to the parties arraigned before it, to publish particulars relating to its enquiry and  Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code prohibits and punishes selling, hiring, exhibition, circulation, possession, importation, exportation of obscene material . Indecent Representation of Women  Mr. Gopal Jain, learned counsel appearing for Hindustan Times respondent no.3, practically adopted the arguments put forth by Mr. Jain . In addition, respondent no  The maintainability of the writ petition was also raised as a preliminary issue by learned counsel appearing for some of the respondents and, in particular, respondent Nos. 3 and 4 . Respondent  Article 19(1)(a) deals with freedom of speech and expression . Court held: "It is certainly a serious encroachment on the valuable and cherished right of speech"  This Court has time and again dealt with the issue of obscenity and laid down law after considering the right of freedom and expression enshrined in Article 19(1)(a) of  The concept of obscenity is moulded to a very great extent by the social outlook of people who are expected to read the book . The American Courts, from time to time,  Supreme Court in India held Lady Chatterley's Lover to be obscene, but in England the jury acquitted the publishers finding that the publication did not fall foul of the obscenity test  The Press Council of India is yet to receive any response from the Government . The pictures in dispute had been published by the respondents with the intent to inform readers of the current entertainment news from  The Times of India and Hindustan Times are leading newspapers in Delhi having substantial subscribers from all sections . It has been made clear by learned counsel appearing for the leading newspapers that it is