 Nine persons were alleged to be responsible for homicidal death of one Joga Singh (hereinafter referred to as the 'deceased') Five of them faced trial and one of  Nanak Singh Nishter (A-2) was president of Central Gurudwara, Gowliguda and also an Executive Member of Shree Nanak Jhira Sahib  A-1 and A-2 proposed to hold Deewan-E Aam on 2.10.88 at Bidar Gurudwara with ulterior motive of defaming  A-1 to A-9 entered into criminal conspiracy to do away with deceased Joga Singh . In pursuance of said conspiracy, A-5 and A-7 went to Punjab  A-5, A-7 and A-9, tried to apprehend them, but they fled away into the dark . A-8 who made attempt to escape on Luna bearing Registration  A-5 had categorically stated about the involvement of A-1. Not only PWs 16 and 32 but other witnesses i.e. PWs 1, 3, 14,  The Act has been enacted to take care of all terrorist activities . Special provisions relating to nature of substantive evidence have been provided in TADA . A-5 was shown as an accused in  The only interpretation that can be given to the expression "charged and tried" is that the use of a confessional statement against a co-accused is permissible when both the accused making  The High Court dismisses the appeal filed by Esher Singh as the sentence imposed is commensurate with the gravity of the offence and also needs no interference . The application of Section 4  Article 136 is a plenary power, 'exercisable outside the purview of ordinary law' to meet the pressing demands of justice . The exercise of the power of this Court is  Evidence shows that A-1 was inciting the Sikhs to form separate Khalistan State and making Hyderabad as base for Khalistan movement . Prosecution need not necessarily prove that the perpetrators  Conspiracy consists in the agreement of two or more persons to do an unlawful act, or to do a lawful act by unlawful means . It is not, however, necessary that each conspirator  The provisions of Section 120A and 120B, IPC have brought the law of conspiracy in India in line with the English Law by making the overt act unessential when the conspiracy is  Conspiracy is a continuing offence which continues to subsist till it is executed or rescinded or frustrated by choice of necessity . The most important ingredient of the offence is the agreement between two or  Court in B.G. Barsay v. State of Bombay held: 'The gist of the offence is an agreement to break the law'  There is no merit and are dismissed.  merit and dismissed. merit and merit, they were dismissed .