 A further challenge in the writ petition was also made to the 'vires' of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred  Pannalal Jaysoara was accused of manufacturing bombs in the "Khaskhas" room on the first floor of 267, B.Ganguly Street, Calcutta  The law is, the High Court must assume each of the allegations made in the charge-sheet to be factually correct and examine the ingredients of the offence without adding or subtracting anything  The High Court has held in the impugned judgment that from the act of preparation and storage of bombs intention to commit offences under TADA cannot be inferred as the motive was to defend  The High Court erred in holding that the Court taking cognizance can only look at the police report and nothing else . The report under Section 173(2) is accompanied by all  It is urged that under Section 202 of the Code a plea of self-defence could be raised and the decision invited at the time of issuing process . The sanction in this case is  Hitendra Vishnu Thakur v. State of Maharashtra, [1994] INSC 358; [(1994) 4 SCC 602] [1994 SCC (Cri)  The word 'cognizance' indicates the point when a Magistrate or a Judge first takes judicial notice of an offence . It is entirely a different thing from initiation of proceedings;  R.P Kapur v. State of Punjab28 and State of Haryana v. Bhajan Lal2 found no basis for High Court to examine the correctness of the view  The High Court fell into grave error in appreciating documents and affidavits produced before it by treating them as 28 [(1960) 3 SCR 388:] AIR 1960 SC 866: [  The High Court has repeatedly pointed out that the High Court should not, while exercising power under Section 482 of the Code, usurp the jurisdiction of the trial court . The power under  Accused Mohd. Rashid Khan and his relatives reside at 43, B.B. Ganguly Street, Calcutta-12 . He used to maintain a group of antis  Accused Murtaza, Khalid and Hassu and Khurshid kept two drums and four bags together and placed a plastic sheet . Owner of Khaskhas Godown, E  The order of sanction by the Commissioner of Police is dated 11-6- 1993 . It says that on 16-3-1993 at about 23.59 hours there was an explosion due  The High Court in the impugned judgment criticises the order of sanction . It held: "It has been specifically alleged that no sanction order was given by the Commissioner of Police -  The finding that there was no order of sanction is not correct factually . The High Court had overlooked the fact that Mr Sujit Kumar Sanyal had sworn to the earlier affidavit as  It is emphatically denied that no sanction was given by Respondents 3 and 4 or that the law enjoins a duty upon the Designated Court to record by an order the fact of  The Government cannot adequately discharge the obligation of deciding whether to decide whether to give or withhold a sanction without a knowledge of the facts of the case . A sanction given without reference to the facts  In Walli Mohammad v King21 it is held as under: "The statements of each prisoner are evidence against himself only and are inadmissible against his fellow accused" The least we  The common law definition of 'criminal conspiracy' was stated first by Lord Denman in Jones' case that an indictment for conspiracy must charge a conspiracy to do an unlawful act by unlawful means  The existence of 26 live bombs is a clear indication of conspiracy, says the High Court .  In Stree Atyachar Virodhi Parishad case10 in (para 14, p. 72 1), which is as under: "It is in the trial  The High Court has found in the impugned judgment as follows: "The acts which the accused persons did is the act of preparation and storage of bombs, which are undoubtedly made of