 There was a dispute between the appellants and the complainant's party over the 'turns of water' for irrigation of their agricultural lands . The dispute was settled by a patchwork mediation  The jurisprudence of sentencing in Free India has been a Cinderella . The values of our Constitution have not adequately humanised the punitive diagnostics of criminal courts, which sometimes remind us  It is not within the province of this Court while dealing with an appeal confined to sentence under Art. 136, to curtail the scope of death sentence under s. 302 l.P.  There are no rationes decidendi much less any ratio in Rajendra Prasad's case . The majority decision does not lay down any legal principle applied to any legal problem disclosed  The obsession to get the death penalty abolished from the Statute Book i.e. Indian Penal Code 1860 is so great great an interdict against it is spelt out from the Constitution  Rajendra Prasad's case exposed the disutility and counter culture of an obsolescent obsession with crime as distinguished from crime doer . No Indian is innocent of the insightful observations  High Court sentences Dalbir Singh, Kulwant Singh, Sardul Singh and Piara Singh to death for shooting four men in 1977 . Jagir Singh was unarmed and without provocation of  After Ediga Annama's case, the law of punishment under s. 302 I.P.C. has been largely settled by this Court and the High Courts are bound thereby .  Section 302 of the Penal Code, read with Section 354(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code, demands special reasons for awarding the graver sentence, and to borrow the reasoning in Raj  Had it been done before Goundan was gallowed many judicial hangings could have been halted . But dead men tell no tales and judicial 'guilt' has no temporal punishment .  It is not every thing said by a Judge when giving judgment that constitutes a precedent . The only thing in a Judge decision binding party is the principle upon which the case is decided . The  There is increasing concern today about the judiciary transgressing its limits by usurping the function of the legislature . Many critics think that the courts should 'apply', but not 'make', the  The High Court was justified in confirming the death sentences passed under s. 368(a) of the Code of Criminal procedure, 1973 . The award of death sentence to the two appellants