 Bidi rollers were formerly given the benefit of weekly holidays and wages in lieu of holidays . The owners of bidi making establishments in the State of Maharashtra refused to give them those benefits  The Factories Act is an Act to consolidate and amend the law regulating labour in factories . The Act has been 862 enacted primarily with the object of protecting workers employed in factories against industrial  The Court held on these facts that the bidi roller could not be said to be 'employed' by the owner and was not therefore a worker . There was no actual supervision of work  It is contended that the Factories Act infringe the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Arts. 14 and 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution . 'Factory' is  The Indian Legislature enacted Act 15 of 1881 as the first Act which dealt with factories . Royal Commission of Labour in India was appointed to make a detailed investigation into labour problems in India .  The bidi and cigar labour . satisfies many of the criteria of sweated labour, such as sub-contract system, long hours, insanitary working conditions, home work (in  Patna 877.874 owners of the factories to maintain inspecting staff and for maintenance of health, cleanliness, prevention of overcrowding and provision for amenities such as lighting, drinking  Minimum Wages Act is to prevent exploitation of the workers, and for that purpose it aims at fixation of minimum wages which employers must pay . It is to carry out effectively the object underlying  Maharashtra issued the impugned Notification including therein those factories which were on the register of Factories main- tained by the Chief Inspector of . Factories' [879 Act,  Section 79 clearly applies to workers who work for the full period of employment during factory hours and for the prescribed number of days . A deemed worker in a factory, to which s. 79  The Court held that the workers in the factory were 'employed' and would if they fulfilled the requirements of s. 79-viz, the total number of days of work-be