 Haryana Sales Tax Act, 1973: Assessees-Purchasing raw materials in state without paying tax--Manufacturing goods--Selling them to dealer who exported goods out  Section 9(1)(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act was declared unconstitutional by this Court in the Goodyear case . The High Court was right in concluding that the assessee was  The purchase of raw materials by the assessees are not 346 chargeable to tax either under section 9(1) or section 6 or section 24(3) of the Hary  The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause w.e.f. 1983 which reads: "The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac-  Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub-section of the Central Sales Tax Act . Act 11 of 1979 redrafted the above provision, ex-cluding milk from clause (  The exclusion of milk was decided to be dropped and so all that this amendment did was to roll both clauses (b) and (bb) into one clause . Act 11 of 1984 effected  Act 3 of 1983 renumbered the above as s. 24(1) and added, with effect from 31.3.83, a proviso each, to clauses (a)  Mohammed Sirajuddin v. State, [1975] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 169, said sales to be "sales in the course of export" and hence  Court said sale by an Indian exporter from India to a foreign importer alone qualifies 'as a sale which has occasioned the export of the goods' If such sales do not qualify  The provisions in s. 9(1) of the Act need to be interpreted harmoniously and consistently with the con- stitutional scheme . Purchases of raw materials in the manufacture of  Section 9(1)(a)(ii), as originally framed, merely uses the words "in the course of export outside the territory of India" w.e.f. 1976 .  There is no dispute that the assessees have transferred the manufactured goods by way of sale . The exact terms of despatch are not clear and there are no facts on record which will  S. 9(1)(b) of the Act has been de- clared unconstitutional by this Court . Sri Gupta says he can support the as- sessments under s.  In the original section, there was an Explanation which restricted the meaning of purchases for the purposes of the section . It provided that only purchases of declared goods, goods speci- f  This provision does not tax purchases even in cases where the manufactured goods are disposed of only by way of 'penultimate sales falling under s. 5(3) of the C.S