 The petitioner, an organisation dedicated to the cause of release of labourers in the country, petitioned the Supreme Court .  A large number of labourers from different parts of the country were working in some of the stone quarries in district Faridabad, State of 68 Haryana under "inhuman  The State is under a constitutional obligation to see that there is no violation of the fundamental right of any person, particularly when he belongs to the 70 weaker sections of the community and is unable  Clause (1) of Article 32 confers the right to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of any of the fundamental rights, but it does not say as to who shall have this right  Article 32 conferring power on Supreme Court to issue directions, orders, or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, qua  There is nothing sacrosanct about the adversarial procedure with evidence led by either party and tested by cross-exmaination by the other party and the judge playing a positive role  The court did not act beyond its power in appointing the commissions for the purpose of making an inquiry into the conditions of workmen employed in the stone quarries . The position pointed out as  All the provisions of the [Mines Act 1952] (other than the excepted sections) apply to these stone quarries . The mine-lessees and owners of stone crus  The thekedar or jamadar who is engaged by the mine lessees or the stone crusher owners would clearly be a 'contractor' within the meaning of that term  The Central Government being the "appropriate government" within the meaning of section 2 sub-section (1) clause (a) would be responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of the Contract  It would be cruel to insist that a bonded labour in order to derive the benefits of this social welfare legislation, should have to go through a formal process of trial with the normal procedure for  The Court issued several directions to the Central Government and the State Government for implementing the provisions enacted in various social welfare laws for the benefit of the workmen employed in the stone quarries and  Public Interest Litigation constitutes today a significant segment of the Supreme Court's docket . The provisions of Article 32 do not specifically indicate who can move the Court . Article 32 speaks of the  All communications and petitions invoking jurisdiction of the Court must be addressed to the entire Court, that is to say, the Chief Justice and his companion judges . No such communication or petition can properly  The pattern which the Court adopts will vary with the circumstances of each case . It is not open to the Court to bypass the statute and evolve a different procedure at variance with it .  An excessively political role identifiable with political governance betrays the Court into functions alien to its fundamental character . The Judge, conceived in the true classical mould, is an impartial arbiter, beyond  The Court will become increasingly consious of its expanding jurisdiction, but its responsibilities are correspondingly great, and perhaps never greater than now .  The Bonded labourers working in the far away places are generally poor and belong to the very weak section of the people . They are also not very literate and they may not be  A mere technicality in the matter of form or procedure which may not in any way affect the substance of any proceeding should not stand in the way of the exercise of the very wide Jur  The power to appoint a commission or an investigation body for making enquiries in terms of directions given by the Court must be considered to be implied and inherent in the power that the Court has  The petitioner is an organisation dedicated to the cause of release of bonded labourers in the country . The system of bonded labour has been prevalent in various parts of the country since long prior to  There are still a number of bonded labourers in various parts of the country and significantly, as pointed out in the Report of the National Seminar on "Identification and Rehabilitation of  The State of Haryana has tried to quibble with the definition of 'bonded labour' given in the [Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976  "Thekedars" extract 30% of miner's wages as their ill gotten commission (Rs. 20 out of Rs. 60, wages for per truck load of stone ballast)  M/s. Ashok Srivastava and Ashok Panda found that none of the inmates of the jhuggies had any blanket or woolen clothes and they did not  A writ petition was brought up for hearing on 5th March 1982 along with another petition filed by the present petitioner 99 for release of some other bonded labourers . The Court also appointed Dr  The State of Haryana deposited a sum of Rs. 1500 in Court to meet the expenses of the socio-legal investigation and Dr. Patwardhan embarked upon his task with the  The State Government should not baulk an inquiry by the court when a complaint is brought by a citizen . The Government should be anxious to satisfy the court and through the court the people  Haryana Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Act 1973 is the owner of the mines . Central Government is bound to ensure observance of various social welfare and labour laws enacted by  It was only in 1981 in the Judges Appointment and Transfer Case that this Court took the view that where a person or class of persons to whom legal injury is caused by reason of violation  The Constitution makers deliberately did not lay down any particular form of proceeding for enforcement of a fundamental right . They knew that in a country like India where there is so much of poverty, ignorance  The purpose for which the power to issue an appropriate direction, order or writ is conferred on the Supreme Court is to secure enforcement of a fundamental right . The Constitution makers never intended to fet  It must be remembered that the problems of the poor which are now coming before the court are qualitatively different from those which have occupied the attention of the court . We have to abandon the  The learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Phadke relied on Order XXVI of the Code of Civil Procedure . The Supreme Court has no power to appoint a commission for making  Section 2(kk) gives the definition of "open cast working" and according to this definition, it means "a quarry, that is to say, an excavation where any operation for  The most important rights and benefits conferred on the workmen are those relating to their health and safety which include provisions as to drinking water, conservancy and injuries arising out of accidents . The  The State of Haryana is bound to take action to enforce the provisions of the [Mines Act 1952] and the Mines Rules 1955 and other Rules and Regulations made under that Act  Section 12 imposes certain duties and obligations on contractors which include the duty to issue to every inter-State migrant workman a pass-book containing various particulars regarding recruitment and employment of the work  Most of the workmen employed in the stone quarries and stone crushers come from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamilnadu and Andhra Pradesh .  The jamadar or thekedar is clearly a 'contractor' of the stone crusher owners . The workmen recruited or employed by him on behalf of the owners of stone  Section 20 enacts that if any amenity required to be provided under section 16, 17, 18 or 19 for the benefit of the contract labour employed in an establishment is not provided by  Workmen employed in the stone quarries not only quarry the stone but also carry out the work of a shot firer and a stone breaker . They do not get the minimum wage stip  Clause (g) defines "bonded labour system" to mean: "the system of forced, or partly forced, labour under which a debtor enters, or has, or is  Section 13 provides for constitution of a Vigilance Committee in each District and each sub-division of a District . It does not appear from the record whether the Government of Haryana has  The thrust of the Act is against the continuance of any form of forced labour . A labourer must not only be forced to provide labour to the employer but he must have also received  The first question that arises in regard to the implementation of the [Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act 1976] is that of identification of bonded labour . The State Government cannot  The State Governments must concentrate on rehabilitation of bonded labour and evolve effective programmes for this purpose . The concept of rehabilitation has the following four main features as admirably set out in the letter  We direct Shri Laxmi Dhar Misra, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Labour, Government of India, to visit the stone quarries and stone crushers in Farid  Workmen are deprived of the rights and benefits conferred upon them under various social welfare laws . They are subjected to deception and exploitation, in that they are totally ignorant of their rights and entitle  The workmen are not paid anything for transporting water from distant places like the tubewell . Neither any mine-lessee or stone crusher owner nor any jamadar regards it  There is a specific prescription in section 19 of the [Mines Act 1952] and Rules 30 to 32 of the Mines Rules 1955 . Drinking water to be provided by them has to be  The Report of Dr. Patwardhan shows that there is not a trace of such conservancy facilities in any of the stone quarries . The only privacy is that provided by the "  The State of Hamsamsa has to ensure that the provisions of the Act are given effect in any particular case of injury or illness . They must also ensure that they are given the  The Government of Haryana will take all necessary steps for the purpose of ensuring that minimum wages are paid to the workmen employed in the stone quarries and stone crushers . The  The Central Board of Workers Education will organise periodic camps near the sites of stone quarries and stone crushers in Faridabad district . The Central Government and the Government of Haryana  The Inspecting Officers of the Central Government as also of the State Government will visit each stone quarry or stone crusher at least once in a fortnight and ascertain whether there is any workman  The State of Haryana will deposit a sum of Rs.5000 within two weeks from today for the purpose of meeting the costs and out of pocket expenses of Shri Laxmi  Interference by the courts in public interest litigation as a series of quixotic forays in a world of unyielding and harsh reality is bound to be limited in impact and brief  Petition invokes the jurisdiction of the Court under Article 32 of the Constitution, which confers the guaranteed right to move this Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of fundamental rights . Petition inv  It is only comparatively recently that the Court has begun to call for the filing of a regular petition on the letter . I see grave danger inherent in a practice where a mere letter is entertained  In public interest litigation, the role held by the Court is more assertive than in traditional actions . In shaping the relief the court must invariably take into account its impact on those interests .  Article 32 confers the widest amplitude of power on this Court in the matter of granting relief . Constitution envisages a broad division of the power of the State between the legislature, the executive  An excessively political role . betrays the Court into functions alien to its fundamental character . The lives of large sections of people are shaped and ordered by mandatory Court action . Public approval and public  There is great merit in the Court proceeding to decide an issue on the basis of strict legal principle and avoiding the influence of purely emotional appeal . Court decrees draw no authority from the participation  The continued existence of such pockets of oppression and misery do no justice to the promises and assurances extended by our Constitution to its citizens . A preliminary objection was raised by Shri K. L  The locus standi of the petitioner to move this Court appears to be conclusively established by the decision of this Court in the case of S.P. Gupta v Union of India  There cannot be any doubt that this Court should usually follow the procedure laid down in O.XXXV of the Rules of this Court . Rules do not have the effect of limiting the jurisdiction  The Petitioner which claims to be a Social Welfare Organisation interested in restoring liberty and dignity to these unfortunate bonded labourers should be considered competent to move this Court by a letter or like communication  Court has inherent power to act in such a manner as will enable this Court to discharge its duties and obligations under Art. 32 of the Constitution properly and effectively in the larger interest of administration