 Land Acquisition--Cis-Sutlej Jagir--Inalienable Land--Com- pensation, apportionment of--Interest, when payable--East Punjab Acquisition and  The claimants were entitled to interest at 4% per annum on the compensation amount from the date when possession was taken by the State to the (late on which it deposited 678  Seven appeals arise from the same land acquisition proceedings in respect of which the Punjab Government originally issued a notification under s. 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on March 23,  In 1953 the Punjab Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1953 (XI of 1953), came into force . Section 24 of this Act repeals the two earlier Acts  Satinder Singh, who was the next heir, was entitled to contest the amount of compensation and was also entitled to claim a share in the distribution of the amount . In regard to Dh  Amrao Singh, Satinder Singh, Sardarani Gurdial Kaur and Viswanatha Sastri had their appeals dismissed by the High Court . The High Court said  The large Jagirs owned by the families are situated in Kharar and Rupar Tehsils of Ambala District and they formed part of the area formerly known as Cis  The appellant is entitled to represent the reversionary interest in the present proceedings . The argument is that since respondent 1 was not entitled to alienate the property and was under an obligation to  The appellant contends that the fairest way to distribute this amount would be to divide it half and half between him and respondent 1 . The High Court thought that the ratio may be 2/  Claimants contend that their immovable property has been acquired by the State and the State has taken possession of it . Act of taking possession generally implies an agreement to pay interest on the value  Punjab High Court has taken in Surjan Singh v. The East Punjab Government (2), and we think rightly . It is, however, urged by Mr. Gopal Singh for respondent  Mr. Mathur attempted to challenge the propriety of the order passed by the High Court directing that the amount of compensation in respect of Dhirpur lands should be .invested .