 The appellant-assessee did not include in the taxable turnover the freight charges paid in respect of the goods sold under the bonafide impression that freight charges were not to be so includ  The language used in sub-section (2) of section 7 is "full amount of tax due on the basis of return" The "return" is the return Sled by the  Whether the return filed be correct or not, the tax payable by the assessee under sub-section (2) of section 7 would be the full amount of tax due on the basis  If no return is filed within the prescribed time, it would undoubtedly constitute a default attracting penalty under section 16, sub-section (1) clause (n) but there would be no  The courts are 568 expected to construe the machinery sections in such a manner that a charge to tax is not defeated . It is settled law that a distinction has to be made by  The Judgment of A.P. Sen and E. S. Venkataramiah JJ. P. N. Bhagwati, J. BHAGWATI  The Assessing Authority levied a penalty of Rs. 1,34,205 under section 7 AA of the State Act read with section 9 sub-section (2) of the Central Act  Section II B of the State Act provides for interest on failure to pay tax, fee or penalty . The dealer is liable to pay simple interest on such amount at one per cent per month  Court in State of Rajasthan v. Ghasi Lal(1) says it is incon- 576 sistent with the decision of a Bench of five Judges of this Court  Sub-section (1) of section 7 requires an assessee to file a return, the return filed must be correct and proper . The Assessing Authority may not give credence to  It does not stand to reason that the legislature should have subjected the assessee to such liability for non-payment of an amount of which the liability for payment is still to be ascertained  It is difficult to appreciate how under the scheme of taxation embodied in the State Act, the amount of tax which is yet to be ascertained through the process of assessment can be said to  Mr. Justice Venkataramiah has in his Judgment classified registered dealers into the following five different categories: A registered dealer who files his return showing a higher taxable turnover than the actual  A registered dealer falling within category 3 who does not File any return at all as required by sub-section (I) of section 7 would still be liable to pay the amount of tax  If the assessee does not pay the full amount of the tax due on the basis of the return as required subsection (2) of section 7, he would be liable to pay interest  Sub-section (8) of section 18A of the Income Tax Act was rejected by the Court on the ground that it was not possible to calculate interest in tile manner laid down in  M/s. Associated Cement Companies Limited has filed this appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution against the orders passed by the Commercial Tax officer, Special Circle, Kota  The explanation of the assessee for not including the freight charges in the taxable turnover was, as mentioned earlier, that there was a doubt about its liability to pay sales tax thereon .  Section 11B of the Act during the relevant, period read as under:- 11 B. Interest on failure to pay tax, fee or penalty . The expression 'prescribed' is defined  Rule 25 of the Rules which is framed under the Act should be read as a part of the Act itself in view of the express provision contained in . Section 26 says all rules made under  A fair reading of the Act suggests that section 7(1) must be read as on the basis of a true and proper return in the context in which those words appear in the statute  The Court followed the Privy Council in Gursahai Saigal v. Mahaliram Ramjidas and by the House of Lords in Whitney v. Commissioners af In  The High Court of Rajasthan and Ors.v. Ghasi Lal was challenging the making of assessment on his turnover for the year 1955-56-56 . The High  The Rajasthan Sales Tax Validation Act (Rajasthan Act 43 of 1959) replaced the Ordinance published on March 28, 1955 were invalid . The High Court quashed  Ghasilal J. ri, J. (as he then was) who delivered the judgment of this Court observed thus : "In our opinion, there has been no breach  Clause (a) of section 11 states that if the amount of any tax payable under sub-section (2) and (2A) of . section 7 is not paid within the  The decision of this Court did not create any new liability. It only declared that such a liability was existing at the relevant point of time .