 Samaresh Bose, the first appellant, is a well-known writer of Bengali Novels and stories . He is the author of a novel which under the caption "P  The Trial Judge did not place any reliance on the testimony of these two eminent witnesses and proceeded to make his own assessment after reading the book and that too "with an open mind and a  The concept of obscenity is moulded to a very great extent by the social outlook of the people who are expected to read the book . A Judge with a puritan and prud  The novel in question has been found to be obscene and as such accused No. 1 Shri Samaresh Basu cannot escape liabilities . The author has written this novel which came to  The accused preferred an appeal to the High Court at Calcutta . The High Court discharged the rule in the Criminal Revision No. 299/69 and dismissed the appeal affirming the sentences  The first witness called on behalf of the accused was Shri Budhadev Bose . Shri Basu emphatically and categorically denied that those passages or any part thereof could be  The other witness called on behalf of the accused was Dr. Naresh Chandra Guha who at the time of giving his evidence was the Professor and Head of the Department of Comparative Literature  The Chief Presidency Magistrate atically refuted that there was any obscenity in any of those passages . Guha: "I find this book has no literary value, nor merit,  The learned Single Judge of the High Court has affirmed the view expressed by the learned Chief Presidency Magistrate that the novel in question is obscene and comes within the mischief of s. 292 I  Mr. Sanghi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, has contended that neither the novel as a whole nor any part thereof can be considered to be obscene within the  Mr. Sanghi has referred to decisions of this Court and other authorities . Mr. Mukherjee has submitted that the novel has to be judged in the background of the conditions prevailing  The Indian Penal Code borrowed the word 'obscene' from the English Statute . The Common law of obscity was established three hundred years ago when Sir Charles Sedley exposed his public  Obscenity in books, however, was punishable only before the spiritual courts because it was 80 held down to 1708 in which year Queen v Read, 11 Mod 205 Q.  To adopt such an attitude towards art and literature would make the courts a board of censors . Emulation by our writers of an obscene book under the aegis of this Court's  Court held that the book in question was not obscene within the meaning of S. 292 I.P.C. This is Court . The High Court held the accused to be guilty of  The standard should always be for the writer to see that the adolescent ought not to be brought into contact with sex, or that if they read any references to sex in what is written whether  The Court must take an overall view of the matter complained of as obscene in the setting of the whole work, but the matter charged as obscene must also be considered by itself and separately to  Sukhen is the youngest son of his parents . His father holds a good job and the only interest in life is to make money . Sukhen's mother is painted as a delicate and  Shikha kindled in him the human feelings which had remained dormant in him and had in fact been perverted . Sukhen was about to change his ways of life to lead a  It has to be remembered that the author has chosen to use such kind of words and language in expressing the feelings, thoughts and actions of Sukhen as men like Sukhen could indulge in  Appeal allowed. We acquit the appellants of the charges framed against them and we hold that the novel is not obscene and does not offend S. 292 I.P.C.