 1978 Parliament passed the [Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978]. The Act came into force on December 13, 1978 and section 12 provided  The firm and its partners filed a writ petition challenging the validity of the F.I.R. and the proceedings arising out of it . The High Court held that the Act did not  A transaction under which, one party deposits with the other or lends to that other a sum of money, cannot be a 'money circu- 124 lation scheme' within the meaning  The power to investigate into cognizable offences must be exercised strictly on the condition on which it is granted by the Code . An investigation is carried on for the purpose of gathering necessary materials for  The word 'scheme' has not been defined in the Act. To be money circulation scheme, a scheme must be for the making of quick or easy money . Transactions in black money  No offence under the Act is at all disclosed, and as no case is made that the firm is conducting or promoting a chit fund, the Act cannot be said to be applicable to  The F.I.R. inquiry was held secretly to verify correctness or otherwise of the information . The inquiry reveals that the said 'Sanchaita Investments' is a partnership firm  It is impossible to take clause (c) to mean that any and every activity "for the making of quick or easy money" is comprehended within its scope . A lawyer who charges  A 'scheme,' according to the dictionary meaning of that word, is 'a carefully arranged and systematic program of action', a 'systematic plan for attaining some object', '  It is difficult to hold that the lender, himself a victim of the machinations of the crafty promoter, is intended by the Act to be arraigned as an accused .  The State's song is that the scheme conducted by the accused generates black money and will paralyse the economy of the country . There is no allegation even in any of the affidavits filed  Shri Som Nath Chatterjee has placed great reliance on the decision of this Court in State of West Bengal v. S.N. Basak, in which it was held that  Privy Council in King-Emperor v. Kawaja Nazir Ahmad is the charter of the prosecution all over for saying that no investigation can ever be quashed . The functions of  There is no such thing like unfettered discretion in the realm of powers defined by statutes . The power to investigate into cognizable offences must, therefore, be exercised strictly on the condition  The Government of India complained that the firm was involved in high-risk investments and that large amounts of public moneys were kept in deposit with the firm, which were not subjected to  There is no question that this . this is how one may justly describe this story of quick and easy . I will close this narrative by saying that the income--reporting of Sh  The State Government, 148 the Central Government and the Reserve Bank of India must be given a reasonable opportunity to see if it is possible, under the law, to institute an inquiry into the  Inquiry was held secretly to verify correctness or otherwise of the aforesaid secret information . Two partners of the firm were arrested on the 13th of December, two of the partners were arrested .  An affidavit affirmed by Arun Kanti Roy, Deputy Secretary, Finance Department and Ex-officio Director 152 of Small Savings, Government of West Bengal, on behalf of Respondents No  The depositor becomes a member of the investment scheme of the company by subscribing to it and the payment of the quick and easy money by way of high rate of interest is dependent upon the  A question has arisen whether an organisation called 'Sanchaita Investments' is within the purview of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act  The State of West Bengal and its three officers have preferred this appeal with special leave granted by this Court . The Reserve Bank of India and Union of India have been made respondents in this appeal  The High Court was in error therefore in interfering with the powers of the police in investigating into the offence which was alleged in the information sent to the officer incharge of a police station .  The Code of Criminal Procedure gives to the police unfettered power to investigate all cases where they suspect that a cognizable person can always seek a remedy by invoking the power of the High  Mr. Chatterjee has argued that S. 7 of the Act, clearly empowers a Police officer not below the rank of an officer-in-charge of a police station to  Mr. Sen has argued that the Learned Judge having properly appreciated the legal position has made the correct approach to the consideration of the present case . He argues that for a proper appreciation of the  Mr. Sen has argued that the money circulation scheme has been defined in S. 2 (c) of the Act to mean "any scheme, by whatever name called, for the making  Mr. Sen has argued that the search and seizure done in the instant case have also not been done in confirmity with the provisions of law . Mr. Ray and Mr. Sibal  The decisions relied on by Mr. Chatterjee, do not lay down, as it cannot possibly be laid down as a broad proposition of law, that an investigation must necessarily be permitted  The trade name of 'Sanchaita Investments' in prize chits and money circulation Scheme in violation of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act,  S. 2 of the Act deals with definitions of Money Circulation Scheme and Prize Chit . Conventional Chit which is specifically excluded in the definition of prize chits in S.  S. 13 confers necessary powers to make rules and reads as under: "The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and in consultation with the Reserve Bank, make rules  The materials show that the firm accepts loans or deposits from general public for a term against loan certificates which stipulate payment of interest @12% .  If any individual invests is money in expectation of getting a high return, say 50% or more and there is nothing clandestine in the transaction which is above board, can it be said that  The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed . The Judgment in Civil Appeal No 1130 of 1981 will also govern the 1981 Civil Appeal .