 OrS [1974] INSC 91; AIR 1974 SC 2009; 1975 (1) SCR 1; 1974 (2) SCC 402 (11 April 1974) ALAGIR  The Bombay Government Premises (Eviction) Act, 1955, also lays down special procedure for eviction of persons from government premises . Section 105G provides that, subject to the result of  The legislature considered that the ordinary procedure is insufficient or ineffective for evicting the unauthorised occupants of government and municipal property . It would be extremely unreal to hold that an administrative officer would  Northern India Caterers Ltd. vPunjab [1967] INSC 88; [[1967] 3 S.C.R. 399], overruled . Khanna J:  The law laid down by this Court is binding upon all courts in the country under Art. 141 . It would create uncertainty, instability and confusion if such a view is held to be not  Art. 14 is not violated where the law gives a free choice of remedies to a person entitled to relief even if one remedy is more drastic and prejudicial than the other . Art.  The challenge against the constitutional validity of Chapter V-A of tile Municipal Act and Government Premises Eviction Act must, however, be rejected . No classification can be logically complete or precise  There is no formula by which it can be said that one procedure is substantially more drastic and onerous than the other . The equality clause is intended to strike at are real and substantial disparities  The judgment and order dated the 21st/24th August, 1967 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Application No. 1 1 16 of 1966 . The appeal was delivered by A  Chapter V-A was introduced in the Bombay Municipal Act, 1888 by Maharashtra Act 14 of 1961 . Unauthorised occupation is defined as occupation by any person of corporation premises without authority for  It was not and could not be argued that the Acts in so far as they provided for special procedures applying to the State and 2the Municipal Corporation were invalid . But the matters arising under  The decision in Northern India Caterers' case led to the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupation) Act being replaced by [Public Premises . (Ev  Anwar Ali Sarkar was tried under West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950 . Majority came to the conclusion that the necessity for speedier trial of offences did not provide a reasonable basis of  Anwar Ali Sarkar's case concerned with a piece of legislation which covered the whole field of criminal law without any basis for classification except speedier trial which was held not to be a  Suraj Mall Mohta & Co. v. A. V. Visvanatha Sastri & Anr. [1954] INSC 80; [(1955 1 SC  S. 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 modelled on the Indian Taxation oil income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, for investigation  The West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 was under consideration . The Act provided for special procedure for the trial of certain offences . It was held that the "ug  In dealing with this case the Court observed :"This question necessarily leads us to inquire whether the discriminatory provisions of the Act are based on any rational classification, and whether the differentiation of the  The State of Raning Raw. v. Raw.  v. The State . of India, v. Jyoti Pershad v. Administrator for the Union Territory of Delhi .  Anwar Ali Sarkar's case and Suraj Mall Mehta's case upheld validity of the Act . The Court went into the question whether there was any guidance found or principles laid  The Northern India Caterers' case was heard by the Bombay Government of the Corporation Act and the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act . The majority made an obvious mistake in agreeing with the Northern India  All appeals and writ petitions art dismissed . Petitioners will pay one set of costs . Appeals will be posted for disposal before a division Bench .  It would create uncertainty, instability and confusion if law propounded by this Court is held to be not the correct law . As in life so in law things are not static, things are  The rule of adherence to precedent, though it ought not to be abandoned, ought to be in some degree relaxed . Reversal should only be resorted to only in specified contingencies .  Appeal and writ petitions challenge validity of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act and the Bombay Government Premises (Eviction) Act . The challenge is based on the decision of this Court in Northern India  The Municipal Commissioner is given power to determine whether a person is liable to be evicted from any Corporation premises under cl. (a), (b) or (c) of sub-  The Government Premises Eviction, Act also lays down a special procedure for eviction of any person from government premises which is more or less identical with that set out in Ch. VA of  The law is now well settled that the legislature has power of making special laws to atam particular ends, and for that purpose it may select or classify persons . But the mere fact of  The majority decision in Northern Indian Caterers Ltd. v. State of Punjab has no application in the present case, we are of the view that decision does not represent the correct law  The constitutional validity of the enactment of this special procedure was challenged before this Court as being violative of Art. 14 . There were two grounds on which the challenge was based : one was  Mr. Bachawat, J., delivering judgment on behalf of himself and Hidayatullah, J. Bachwat, said that "without violating Art. 14, the law  An employee injured in the course of his employment had open to him three avenues of redress, any one of which he might pursue according to the facts of his case . The question arose for  The State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (supra) v. The Saurashtra State Public Safety (Third Amendment) Ordinance, 1949, was impugned  The majority judges held section 11 of the Saurashtra Ordinance to be valid . The minority judges in Kathi Raning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra(1) observed that  The constitutional validity of section 5(4) of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 was assailed in that case on the ground that "evasion,  Section 5(1) of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 was valid when section (1) stood in its unamended form, it became void  The equality clause is not constricted by any constitutional dogma or rigid formula . It is not necessary, in order to incur the condemnation of the equality clause, that the initiation of both procedures  The scope and content of the rule against discrimination in matters of procedure cannot, therefore, be narrowed down or its applicability in the present case obviated on the ground suggested by the  Can it be said that the special procedure laid down in the impugned provisions and the ordinary procedure of a civil suit operate on the same class of occupiers of Municipal or Government premises  There is no discrimination against all occupiers of Municipal or Government premises, but is vested with a discretion in the matter, the in offend against article 14 . What we have to see is  A familiar example of this type of legislation is the [Preventive Detention Act, 1950], which, having indicated in what classes of cases and for what purposes preventive detention can be ordered  The challenge against the constitutional validity of Chapter VA of the Municipal Act and the Government Premises Eviction Act must accordingly be rejected . We are of the view that the decision in Northern India  The equality clause would become the delight of legal casuistry and be shorn of its real purpose which is to provide hope of equal dispensation to the common man . The whole dimension  The two procedures would have to be compared objectively and dispassionately without any predilection or prejudice to determine whether one is really and substantially more drastic and prejudicial than the other .