 Appeal preferred against the judgment and decree of the Punjab and Haryana High Court dismissing the second appeal filed by the appellant raises certain basic questions concerning natural Justice in the context of disciplinary proceedings  A report was submitted by the enquiry officer holding both the charges established . The competent authority accepted the report and ordered the removal of the respondent from the service . An appeal and a review  Only Balwant Singh was not examined at the oral enquiry at all as stated above . The other witness who was examined during the preliminary enquiry, Kaur Singh, Patwari  The Appellate Court has recorded that when he was advised to peruse, examine and take note; from the documents including the statements of witnesses Kaur Singh and Balwant Singh,  The test is: all things taken together whether the delinquent officer/employee had or did not have a fair hearing . In respect of procedural provisions other than of a fundamental nature the theory  The appellants were daily rated unskilled labourers . On the allegation of misconducts an enquiry was held by the head of the department . Thereafter, the deputy president asked certain  Al Mehdawi v. Secretary of State for the Home Department (1990 (1) R.C.876) was an interesting case . On appeal to the House of Lords  In R.v. Secretary of state for Transport, ex parte Gwent County Council [1987 (1) AllE.R.161], the Court of Appeal too applied the  There is no doubt that if the principles of natural justice are violated and there is by striking down the order of dismissal; but there are cases and cases . We have to look to what  In Hiravath Misra v Rajendra Medical College, the denial of opportunity to cross-examine the material witnesses was held not to vitiate the order made . In K  The Court/Tribunal should not interfere with the order of punishment on the ground that the report was not furnished, the punishment ought not be set aside as a matter of course .  The objective is to ensure a fair hearing, a fair deal, to the person whose rights are going to be affected . The dividing line between quasi-judicial function and administrative function affecting the  An employee was dismissed without supplying him a copy of the enquiry officer's report as required by Section 17(5) of the Jammu and Kashmir (Government Servants) Prevention of  An order passed imposing a punishment on an employee consequent upon a disciplinary/departmental enquiry in violation of the rules/regulations/statutory provisions governing such enquiries should  The Court may not insist on proof of prejudice in such cases . The ultimate test is one of prejudice, i.e., whether the person has received a fair hearing considering all things .  The High Court has not found that any prejudice has resulted from the said violation . The Appellate Court has no doubt said that it has prejudiced the respondent's case but except merely