 Petitioners challenged the constitutional validity of the U.P. Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act of 1953, and two notifications issued by the State Government on September  No question of repugnancy under Art. 254 of the Constitution could arise where Parliamentary Legislation and State Legislation occupied different fields and dealt with separate and distinct matters even though of a cogn  The contention that the impugned Act infringed the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 14 inasmuch as very wide powers were given to the Cane Commissioner which could be used in  These Petitions under article 32 of the Constitution impugn the validity of the U.P. Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1953 (U.  The impugned Act is challenged as ultra vires the powers of the State Legislature, the subject-matter of the Act being within the exclusive field of Parliament . All these Petitions  Second World War intervened and an emergency was proclaimed by the Governor-General under section 102 of the Government of India Act, 1935 . The proclamation of emergency was to operate until revoked by a  India became a Dominion on 15th August, 1947 . The Constituent Assembly passed its first Resolution extending the operation of the Act for one year up to 31st March, 1949 .  Shibban Lal Saxena, the present President of the Ganna Utpadak Sangh and one of the petitioners before us was also a member of that Committee . That Committee submitted  The State of U.P. P. had no power to enact the impugned Act as the Act is with respect to the subject of industries the control of which by the Union  The impugned Act purported to legislate in regard to sugarcane required for use in sugar factories . The word 'industry' was a word of very wide import and included  Production, supply and distribution of goods was no doubt within the exclusive sphere of the State Legislature but it was subject to the provisions of Entry 33 of List III which gave concurrent powers of legislation  Our attention was drawn in this connection to the definition of 'industry' in section 2(j) of the [Industrial Disputes Act, 1947] (Act XIV of 1947  There was an apparent conflict between the legislative powers of the Centre and of the Provinces in this respect which conflict could not have been intended . A reconciliation was to be attempted by reading  The answer of the State of U.P. was two-fold: (1) [1921] 2 A.G. 91, 116.417 should be considered as an  Parliament was invested with the power to make laws inter alia with respect to trade and commerce within a State . Act XXIV of 1946 was extended up to 26th January, 1955 by  The impugned Act was confined only to sugarcane, thus relegating sugar to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Centre . The U.P. Act I of 1938 provided for the  The Act merely confined itself to the regulation of the supply and purchase of sugarcane required for use in sugar factories . It did not concern itself at all with the controlling or licensing of  A State law may be inoperative because the Commonwealth law, or the award of the Commonwealth Court, is intended to be a complete exhaustive code . Even in the absence of intention a conflict  The learned Judge then discussed the various auth- (1) A.I.R. 1939 Cal. 628.427 orities which laid down the test of repugnancy  Act LXV of 1951 related to the development and regulation of the scheduled industries . Act XXVI of 1953 introduced certain amendments in the Act . Section 18-G provided power to control supply  The field of sugarcane was not covered by Act LXV of 1951 as amended by Act XXVI of 1953 . Section 18-G, therefore, did not cover the field of  Parliament was in exercise of concurrent legislative power under Entry 33 of List III as amended by Constitution Third Amendment Act, 1954 . Foodcrops were there defined as including crops of sugarcane  There is no repugnancy whatever between these provisions and the impugned Act and the Rules framed thereunder as also the U.P. Sugarcane Regulation of Supply and  Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1935 did not contain any such power . A 437 proviso has been attached to article 254(2) which says that "nothing in  The U.P. Sugarcane Regulation of Supply and Purchase Order, 1954, could not be validly repealed by the Central Government as was purported to be done by clause (7  Canegrowers' Co-operative Societies are not voluntary organisations but a cane grower is compelled to become a member of the Society before he can sell his sugarcane to  The citizens of India have many rights which have not been given the sanctity of fundamental rights . The right to speak freely carries with it by necessary implication the right to refrain from speaking at  No canegrower is prevented from resigning his membership of a Canegrowers' Co-operative Society . The only person to whom he cannot sell his sugarcane is the  A law or order confers arbitrary and uncontrolled power upon the executive in the matter of regulating trade or business in normally available commodities cannot but be held to be unreasonable . The phrase "reasonable  It is urged that the impugned notifications are violative of the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse embodied in article 301 of the Constitution . The petitioners are not free to sell