 The High Court acquitted accused No. 1 and 2 holding that the offence of conspiracy which formed the gravamen of the charge against them was not proved . The time and place chosen for crime  The High Court dismissed the State's appeal against acquittal of accused No. 4 and 5 but allowed the appeal and enhanced the sentence of accused Nos. 9 to 12 to death . The  Relevancy and admissibility of evidence have to be determined in accordance with provi- sions of the Evidence Act . Failure to comply with section 164(3) Cr.  Five small girls about ten years of age, a year, old infant and four women in their mid-thirties were found murdered between November 14, 1972 and January 4, 1974  The seven accused who were convicted by the Trial Court filed an appeal challenging the order of conviction and sentence . The High Court dismissed the appeal file flied by accused No. 3 holding that  Village-folk commonly believe that treasure troves are lying buried in the town ever since the sixteenth century when its inhabitants fled away after the troops of Murtazahad invaded the  Accused Nos. 1, 2, 9 and 14 were arrested on June 18, 1973 in connection with the first four murders which had taken place between November 14, 1972 and April 13  Illustration (b) to s.114 says that the Court may presume that an accomplice is unworthy of credit unless he is corroborated in material particulars .  It is unsafe to act on the evidence of an accomplice unless it is corroborated in material respects so as to implicate the accused . The rule of prudence was based on the  Ganpat is an utterly worthless witness whose evidence has been rightly discarded by the High Court . Ganpat was interrogated by the police for nearly a month and a half after his arrest at Bar  Shankar did not say to the police that accused No. 1 had asked him to commit the murders . Shankar claims that he had seen the 'shakun' being performed by  The High Court has acquitted accused Nos. 1 and 2 after a fair examination of the material relied upon by the prosecution as against them . Accused No. 1 Rukhmam. 1  Accused No. 3 played a more signifi- cant role in the murder of Sugandabhai by axing her to death . Shankar's evidence is amply corroborated  The High Court of Bombay had framed in- structions for the guidance of Magistrates while recording confessional statements . The instructions are contained in Chapter I, Paragraph 18, of the  Magistrate records confession to satisfy him by appropriate questioning of the confessing accused, that the confession is true and voluntary . Magistrate may refuse to act upon confession even if it is ad  Umaji's evidence has been accepted by the Sessions Court and the High Court . The courts below were justified in relying upon these corroborative circumstances to connect accused No. 9 with the murder  Accused No. 10 admitted in his examination that the shirt and the dhoti were blood-stained but he offered an unconvincing explanation that a child of his had bled  The High Court too missed impact on the issue of the seizure of a blood-stained' Dhoti from the scene of the murder of Haribai and her daughters .  Accused No. 12 is entitled to an acquittal for the reason that the prosecution has failed to prove its case against him beyond a reasonable doubt . Accused Nos. 3, 9  The mandate of s. 235(2) must, therefore, be obeyed in its letter and spirit . The accused may exercise that right either by instructing his counsel to make oral  The legislative history of the sentencing provisions and the explicit language of s.374354(3) show that capital punishment can be awarded for the offence of murder, only if there are special  It would perhaps have been more conducive to greater efficiency if an unduly large number of senior police offi- cers were not commissioned for the investigational work . The use of strong  The archaic attempt to secure confessions by hook or by crook seems to be the be all and end all of the police investigation . The investigation does not reflect any imaginative drive on the part