 Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act (10 of 1953) Ss.10A and 18--Scope of Interpretation of Statutes . Section 18 provides that a tenant, who has  The landowner conspired with her son-in-law and big brother to retain the area in contravention of the law . S. 18 applies only to persons who are legally tenants  Section 18(1)(iii) apparently contemplates purchase rights for persons who had no possession when the Act came into force . The principal category adversely affected would be post statutory collusive tenants  The expression 'transfer' is wide enough to cover transfers by operation of law, as in the present case, under s. 18 . To uphold the contention of the respondents that involuntary transfers  Appeal No. 2479/72 decided on 30-11-1973, Smt. Ujjam Bai v. State of Uttar Pradesh, [1961] INSC 197;  Section 18 is designed to promote one of the primary objects of the Act, namely of procuring ownership of the land to the tiller on easy terms . The self sufficing machinery  The words 'transfer or other disposition of land' must be restricted to voluntary dispositions of land made by the landowner and cannot be extended to cover involuntary transfers brought about by operation of  Three khasras Nos. 177, 265 and 343, in all over 131 acres of land . At the commencement of the Act, khasra No. 177 was under Mst  The Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act, 1950 (Act No. 22 of 1950) was designed "to provide for the security of land tenure and other incidental matters"  The Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953, was enacted and amended from time to time . The Act of 1953 had been amended often, for the professed reason that judicial pronounce  The Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenures Act) 1950 (Act XXII of 1950). as amended by President's Act of 1951," The area other than the reserved area, ie  Tenants have to secure actual possession of what they are eligible to keep, this being the legislative justice shown to landowners by the Act . Actual possession could follow only if the potential for re  Chandu and Sri Chand were the tenants of the land now comprised in the tenancy of Amar Singh on April 15, 1953 . The High Court was asked to reconcile the claims and contentions  The High Court rejected the argument that the legal result is different when the sitting tenants on the relevant date have quit and new tenants have been inducted subsequently . The learned Judge proceeds to negative  Chandu and Sri Chand failed to claim to remain as tenants or to purchase the lands in dispute . The High Court has taken the view that s.10-A(b) cannot  Narula, J., J. said Narula J. J. excluded officer passing orders under s. 18 from "other autho- rities" Narula: "The result  An order by any authority which shrinks the surplus area of the landlord is, invalid to the extent laid down in s. 10-A(c) is,invalid to  An order like Annexure 'A' ordinarily binds the parties only and here the State which is the appellant is seriously prejudiced by that order but is not a party to it . The  The paramountcy of s. 10-A cannot be subverted by illegitimate use of the processes under s. 18 . The expression 'transfer' is wide enough to cover transfers by operation  In Kaushalya Devi v. K. L. Bansal (1) the Court was concerned with a suit for eviction under the Rent Control law . The tenant set out two  The Punjab Security of Landures Act (1953) was passed by the Punjab High Court in 1953 . The High Court ruled that the State has the right to utilise surplus lands for  Section 10-A of the Act., includes involuntary transfer of part of the holding of a landow- ner by operation of anorder forcing the landowner to cell a part of his  The Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act, 1950, first made their appearance in this statute . Amar Singh and Indraj were deemed to have become owners by pur- chase  The Acts of 1950 and 1951, were repealed and replaced by Act 10 of 1953 with which we are concerned . The Act classifies landowners into "small landowners" and "other landowners"  Section 5-A, 5-B and 5-C were inserted by the Amending Act 46 of 1957 which came into force on December 20, 1957 . It was clarified that "  Declaration of 'surplus area' does not have the effect of expropriating the landowner of that area . The only effect of such declaration is that the Government gets a right  Punjab Tenancy Act (XVI of 1887) provides a self- sufficing machinery enabling tenants, to purchase lands comprised in their tenancies . Three conditions are necessary for the  Section 18(1)(ii) gives a right to tenant to purchase the land and that right has to be examined when an application under s. 18 is made and cannot be deemed on  The main purpose the Amending Act 14, of 1962 was to neutralize the effect of certain decisions and to plug the loopholes revealed in the interpretation of sections 2(5-a),  No limitation has been provided within which a Revenue Officer may suo moto review or move for sanction to review an order . Under s. 84 the Commissioner and the Financial Commissioner have the  The High Court upheld the sale orders of the Collector under s. 18, in favour of Amar Singh and Indraj . The State argued that the sale of the land was a "transfer  The Khasra Girdawari before the Collector with the admission of the landowner was sufficient material, on the basis of which the Collector making the orders of purchase in favour of  It is common ground that Field Nos.263, 343 and 177 did not fall within her reserved area . It was not controverted that in May 1961, when the purchase applications were made  The landlord brought an action for eviction of his tenant, Seshadri from a house on the ground that he required it for his bona fide use and occupation . The tenant at first  The Prescribed Authority, surplus Area, and the Collector competent to make an order under s.18 are both Assistant Collectors of the 1st Grade, that is coordinate authorities exercising separate  The words "transfer or other disposition of land" in clause (b) of s.10-A must be restricted to volitional dispositions of land made by the landowner .  The lease created by Smt. Lachchman ceased to subsist as soon as the Collector made the orders of purchase under s. 18 in favour of the erstwhile tenants  Two fields were still comprised in a tenancy, though the holder of the tenancy was a different tenant . The change of the tenant will not make these Fields accrete to the surplus area of