 The only question before the Court is as to when and why shall capital punishment be pronounced on a murderer and why not in other cases, within the confines of the Code . Since law reflects  The retributive theory has had its day and is no longer valid . The current ethos, with its strong emphasis on human rights and against death penalty, must ethically inform the concept  It is illegal in this case to award capital sentence without considering correctional possibilities inside prison . Desperate criminal is a convenient description to brand a person . The question whether the scope of the death  It is not the intention of the Supreme Court to curtail the scope of the death sentence` under s. 302 . Punishment for murder as a rule should be life imprisonment and death sentence  It is only in very grave cases where it is a crime against the society and the brutality of the crime shocks the judicial conscience that the Court has the power, as well as the duty  Rajendra Prasad's case is destructive of the theory of reformation . Punishment must be designed so as to deter, as far as possible from commission of similar offences . Pun  Court should leave aside all humanitarian considerations if the extreme penalty is called for . A 'professional' murderer must, as matter of course, be sentenced to death because he is a menace to  Since people fear death more than anything else, the death penalty is the most effective deterrent . Punishment only protects life effectively if it produces in possible-murderers, not only fear  The death penalty was not inherently cruel and unusual . It served two principal social purposes retribution and deterrence . The death sentence for the crime of murder was (1) not without justification (2  Jurisprudential exploration within the framework of s. 302 I.P.C. has become necessitous, both because the awesome 'either/or' of the Section spells  Anamma Case-July 1977.91 prove to be 'crime' beyond punishment' And history bears testimony to reversal of Court verdict by Discovery of Time .  The Indian Penal Code must be sensitized by the healing touch of the Preamble and Part lII. The deprivation of life is fundamental to be permitted under our system under the strict  An intervener (Committee for Abolition of Death Penalty) interested in abolition of death penalty has submitted, through Dr. L. M. Singhvi, some material . We record  The right to life, in- our constitutional order, is too sacred to be wished away without so much as Directive Principles for its deprivation, save sweeping judical discretion and reference for confirmation  A good sentence of death by the trial court is sometimes upset by the Supreme Court because of Law's delays . Courts have been directed execution of murderers who are mental cases, who do not  Death penalty awards death penalty with a sop to its conscience that the habitual clemency of Government will soften the judicial excess in sentence . If justice under the law justifies the lesser sentence  Several attempts have been made to restrict or remove death penalty under s.302 I.P.C. but never even once to enlarge its application . The most meaningful contribution to 'human  The battle against death penalty by parliamentary action is gaining ground and those who do live in the ivory tower-and Judges, hopefully, do not-will take cognizance of this compassionate  State on the vexed question of legal threat to life by way of death sentence has sought to express itself legislatively, the stream of tendency being to wards cautious, partial abolition and a  An easy confusion is over-stress on the horror of the crime and the temporary terror verging on insane violence the perpetrator displays, to the exclusion of a host of other weighty factors  The only correct approach is to read into s.302 I.P.C. and s.354(3) Cr.C., the human rights and humane trends in the Constitution  For murder a life-term is appropriate save save where 'special reasons' are found for resort to total extinction of the right to life and farewell to fundamental rights . Public order and social  In a developing country, in the area of crime and punishment, social justice is to be measured by social defence and, geared to developmental goals . If the murderous operation of a die-  Death penalty is constitutionalised by reading into s 354(3) Cr. P.C., those 'special reasons' which validate the sentence as reasonably necessitous and non- arbitrary .  Victor Hugo's words are not vapid sentimentalism: "We shall look upon crime as a disease" Gandhiji wrote: "Destruction of individuals can never be a virtuous act  The Indian Penal Code fabricated in the imperial foundry well over a century ago has not received anything but cursory parliamentary attention in the light of the higher values of the National Charter which is  An Indo-Anglian appreciation of British Justice is sometimes relied on subconsciously, strengthened by the ambiguous Report of the Royal Commission on Capital Penalty to substantiate the retentionist theory .  Death penalty for murder is judicial futility as a deterrent and is a vulgar barbarity, if fruitless . English had 200 offences which carried death sentences and publicly hanged boys and girls for  There has come into existence a class of murderers who indulge in a nefarious activity solely for personal, monetary or property gain . Sometimes there is big money in the subtle "murder" business  Death penalty, still on our Code, is the last step in a narrow category where, within a reasonable spell, the murderer is not likely to be cured and tends to murder others .  The trial judge awarded the extreme penalty to him who did this gruesome deed . But the court reduced the sentence to life term grounded on the long and agonising gap between the date of offence  A long-standing family feud, with years-long roots, let to a tragic murder . The appellant, a rash son of one of the feuding elders Pyarelal, was  Prasad's prison term never 'cured' him . The blame for the second murder is partly on this neglect . He must, by now, be more a vegetable than a  Kartar Singh was sentenced to death for stabbing to death three members of the other branch of the family . It is illegal to award capital sentence without considering the correctional possibilities inside prison . Kart  It is cheaper to hang than to heal, but Indian life-any human life-is too dear to be swung dead save in extreme circumstances . The Court has the duty to see that  The death penalty is not only physically but psychologically "brutal", referring to the lengthy period between sentencing and execution as a "lingering death" The main thrust of his judgment is  It is not the intention of this Court to curtail the scope of the death sentence under s. 302 by a process of judicial construction inspired by our personal views . The question whether the scope  The value of capital punishment, as an aspect of deterrence, was perhaps most strongly put forward and clearly stated by the great jurist, Sir James Fitzjames Stephen more than a hundred  The policy of retribution is justified and sustained by an ethical philosophy which regards punishment as an integral and inviolative element in wrong doing, as a moral necessity . Beccaria claimed capital  All punishment properly implies moral accountability, writes Andrew Hammond . Capital punishment does so in an eminent degree, Hammond says . Punishment only protects life effectively if it produces in possible murderers, not  Theories of rehabilitation are largely speculative, since there is lack of scientific evidence to support them . Several attempts were made to break the parliamentary fortress but without any success .  Use of capital punishment has declined in recent times, although it is still permitted by law, as in this country, for various kinds of offences like treason, murder etc. The issue of  In Britain a sentence of death can still and only be awarded for high treason (Treason Act 1814) s. 1; piracy with violence (Piracy Act 1837) s  In de Freitas case the Privy Council confirmed the sentence of death passed by the Court of Appeal of Trinidad and Tobago, and held that there was no violation of the human rights  There began concerted legal attacks on the constitutionality of capital punishment in the 1960s, stimulated in part by the fact that those receiving death sentences were disproportionately Blacks . In Furman v Georgia  The Supreme Court of the United States delivered the judgment it had postponed a year earlier in 1976 . It handed down five opinions dealing with the death penalty in five cases . The death penalty was  The Court's reasons in Gregg as to why the death sentence was not a per se violation of the Eighth and Fourteenth amendments were as follows: First, history and precedent do not support  Almost all the State Governments, all High Court Judges, all the Bar Associations throughout the country, many distinguished lawyers were in favour of retention of the death sentence . The Commission examined a  Sentence must be left to the discretion of the Sessions Judge trying the accused . The President's power to grant reprieve and pardon is wide enough to include the power to commute and to  The validity of white-collar crime as a crime has been a subject of severe controversy in social studies . Krishna Iyer J. wants the death penalty to be inflicted in the case of  Adulteration of food, drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1973 (West Bengal Act 42 of 1973) makes the offence of sale of spurious drugs punishable with imprisonment for life punishable with  It is wholly illogical to require a Judge to pass the same sentence in every case . In his view, the proper solution lies in giving to the Judge the same discretion that he had  Kunjukunju Janardhanan, 28, committed the brutal murder of his innocent wife, Smt. Chandramathi, aged 26 years and his two minor sons,  Three precious lives have been lost by the dastardly act of the accused . The death sentence was clearly called for in this case- firstly, as a threat or warning to