 SCR 88 (19 May 1950) SC [301 (10) F 1951] SC 332 (344) E 1952 SC 75 (45) RF 1952 SC 123 (6) RF  The petitioner was detained under the Preventive Detention Act (Act IV of 1950) applied under Art. 32 of the Constitution for a writ of habeas corpus and for his release from  Section 14 of the [Preventive Detention Act, 1950], contravenes the provisions of Art. 9.9. (5) of the Constitution in so far as it prohibits  Article 22 does not form a complete code of constitutional safeguards relating to preventive detention . Externment, interment and certain other forms of restriction on movement have always been treated as kindred matters  Section 3 of the [Preventive Detention Act, 1950], does not delegate any legislative power to an executive officer but merely confers on such officer a discretion to enforce the law made  The Act may be called the [Preventive Detention Act, 1950]. It extends to the whole of India . It ceased to have effect on the 1st day of April, 1951  This is a petition by the applicant under article 32 (1) of the Constitution of India for a writ of habeas corpus against his detention in the Madras Jail . He challenges  The petitioner is detained under a preventive detention order, made under Act IV of 1950, which has been passed by the Parliament of India . The contention of the peti- tioner is  The inclusion of article 13 (1) and (2) in the Con- stitution appears to be a matter of abundant caution . Even in their absence, if any fundamental rights was  Article 14 of the Constitution gives the right to equality in terms of equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India . Article 19 (1) (a  Sub-clause (d) has nothing to do with detention, preventive or punitive detention . Article 19 has no application to legislation dealing with preventive detention as its direct object .  Article 19 states that individual liberty must give way, to the extent it is necessary, when the good or safety of the people generally is concerned . Clause (2) provides that such right  Deprivation of personal liberty has not the same meaning as restriction of free movement in the territory of India . Article 19 (1) does not purport to cover all aspects of liberty  The word "due process of law" is used in article 21 of the Constitution of India . In contrast to the American Constitution, the Indian Constitution is a very detailed one . The word  The Indian Constitution cannot be read as a standard standard when in omitting "due process of law" from the Constitution . The correct question is what is the right given by article 21 ?  The word "law" as used in this Part has different shades of meaning but in no other article it appears to bear the indefinite meaning of natural justice . Article 31 (2) to  Article 22 is for protection against arrest and detention in certain cases . Article 22 does not apply to any person who is detained for a period longer than three months . Article 21 does not include  Article 21 has to be read as supplemented by article 22 . To the extent the points are dealt with, and included or excluded, article 22 is a complete code . Article 22 envisages  Article 22 (4) and (7) permits the non-disclosure of facts, and together it appears to be implied that preventive detention for less than three months is permitted under the  There is considerable authority for the statement that the Courts are not at liberty to declare an Act void because in their opinion it is opposed to a spirit supposed to pervade the Constitution but not  The argument of the petitioner against section 3 of the impugned Act fails . It was also contended that section 3 prescribes no limit of time for detention and therefore the legislation is ultra  The right to make a defence may be admitted, but there is nothing to support the contention that an oral interview is compulsory . Article 22 (6) permits the non-disclosure of  It was argued that section 11 of the impugned Act was invalid as it permitted the continuance of the detention for such period as the Central Government or the State Govern- ment thought  Section 13(2) was attacked on the ground that even if a detention order was revoked, another detention order under section 3 might be made against the same person on the same grounds .  Section 14 of the impugned Act appears to be a drastic provision which re- quires considerable support to sustain it in a preventive detention Act . It prevents the Court from calling upon  The Act which is impugned was enacted by the Parliament on the 26th February, 1950, and will cease to have effect on the 1st April, 1951, save as respects  The Act is invalid, as it takes away or abridges certain funda- mental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution of India . The rights guaranteed under Part III are classified under  Article 19 (1) is divided into seven sub-clauses and runs as follows:- "All citizens shall have the right- (a) to freedom of speech and expression"  The question as to whether preventive detention is an encroachment on the right guaranteed by article 19 (1) (d) has been considered by the Nagpur, Patna and Calcut  Five Judges have held that it does, and in the ultimate analysis the number of Judges who have held the contrary view appears to be the same . Article 19 (1) (d)  It seems obvious to me that preventive detention amounts to a complete deprivation of the right guaranteed by article 19 (1) (d) It appears that some kind of truncated freedom of 142  The Indian Penal Code does not come within the ambit of the "law imposing a law imposing restrictions on the right to move freely" Roy v. The State of Biharl.  A person is punitively detained only after a trial for committing a crime and after his guilt has been established in a Court of justice . A person so convicted can take his case to the  The scheme of the Chapter dealing with the fundamental rights does not contemplate what is attributed to it, namely, that each article is a code by itself and is independent of the others . In  There can be no escape from the conclusion that preventive detention is a direct infringe- ment of the right guaranteed in article 19 (1) (d) The juristic conception of "  Lord Shaw in narrating the facts of the case stated that there was no difference between internment and imprisonment . Lord Finlay while dealing with the provisions of the regulations observed :-- "  In the Defence of the Realm Regula- tions and Defence of India Rules, preventive detention is classed under the heading "Restriction of movements and activities" "Movement"  Detention is, as is self-evident and as has been pointed out by Viscount Maugham and other eminent judges, another name for depriving a person of all his  Article 21 runs as follows:- "No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law" The only words which cause some difficulty in the proper  The Japanese Constitution was framed with the help of American lawyers drafted by the Government Section . This characteristic was especially evident in the preamble "particularly reminiscent of the American Declaration of Independence"  The essentials of due process are: (1) no- tice, (2) opportunity to be heard, (3) an impartial tribu- nal, and (4  A long course of decisions, beginning with Dr. Bentley's case, and ending with some very recent cases, establish that although there are no positive words in a statute requiring that the party  Lord Macnaghten cited in The King v. Tribunal of Appeal under the Hous- ing Act, 1919 (6) In that case, a company proposed to build a picture  The principle being part of the British system of law and procedure which we have inherited, has been observed in this country for a very long the and is also deeply rooted in our ancient history  Article 22 of the Consti- tution specifically deals with the subject (1) A.I.R. 1943P.C. 211\. (2) C. 108.  Article 22 (7) runs as follows: "Parliament may by law prescribe--- (a) the circumstances under which, and the class or classes of cases in which, a person  Article 22 states that Parliament may by an Act provide for preventive detention for more than three months without reference to an advisory board . Article 22 (7) however practically engrafts an exce  Clause (7) (a) is only an enabling provision, and it takes care to provide that the Parliament cannot go to the extreme limit to which it is permitted to go without prescribing  The Act simply repeats this phraseology and states in sec- tion 3: "with a view to preventing him (the person to be detained) from acting in a manner prejudicial to  The evident meaning of article 22 (7) (a) seems to be that the picture will not be complete without mentioning both the classes and circumstances . Article 22 deals with three classes of  Section 12 of the Act by which a most impor- tant protection or safeguard conferred on the subject by the Constitution has been taken away, is not a valid provision, since it contra  Article 22 provides for notice, an opportuni- ty to the detenu to represent his case, advisory board which may deal with his case and maximum period beyond which a person cannot  So far as section 14 is con- cerned, all my colleagues have held it to be ultra vires . But I think that section 12 goes to the very root of the  The impugned Act suffers in com- parison, on account of want of such provisions, though so far as I can see, no great harm was likely to have been caused  Article 13 is one of a fasciculus of articles which are comprised in part III of the Indian Constitution . Article 12 defines "the State" as including the Governments and Legislatures of  The use of the word "restrictions" in the various sub-clauses seems to imply, in the context, that the rights guaranteed by the article are still capable of  Article 19 guarantees protection for the more important civil liberties of citizens who are in the enjoyment of their freedom, while at the same time laying down the re- strictions which the legislature may  Article 19 declared the substantive rights of personal liberty while article 21 provided the procedural safeguard against their deprivation . Article 21 extends the protection of life and personal liberty to all persons--citizens and non  Mr. Nambiar urged that the word "law" in article 21 should be understood, not in the sense of an enactment, but as signifying the immutable and universal principles of  The phrase has been traced back to 28 Edw. III Ch. 3, and Coke identified the term with the expression "the law of the land" in the Great Charter of John  It is difficult to accept the suggestion that "law" in article 21 stands for the jus naturale of the civil law . The interpretation suggested by the Attorney-General on behalf  It was argued that "law" in article 31 which provides that no person shall be deprived of his property "save by authority of law" must mean enacted law . Clause (2)  The word "established" implies some degree of firmness, permanence and general acceptance, while it does not exclude origination by statute . "Procedure estab- lished by  The language of article 21 is perfectly general and covers deprivation of personal liberty or incarceration, both for punitive and preventive reasons . I am unable to agree with this view . Article 21 covers deprivation  The impugned Act, not having provided for such a tribunal, contravened article 21 and was therefore void . Mr. Nambiar submitted that article 22 was left unprovided  Mr. Nambiar objected that a law could authorise preventive detention for three months with- out providing for review by any tribunal, and for even longer periods if Parliament passed an Act  Clause (4) (a) provided for ordinary cases of preventive detention Where such detention could not continue beyond three months without obtaining the opinion of an advisory board . Clause (7) (  Section 12 of the impugned Act mentions five of the topics mentioned in respect of which Parliament could make laws providing for preventive detention . Mr. Nambiar turned his attack on section  This is the first case in which this Court has been called upon to determine how far the Constitution has secured personal liberty to the citizens of this country . The application fails and is dismissed .  Act IV of 1950 provides for preventive detention in certain cases and will cease to have effect on 1st April 1951 . It empowers the Central Government and the State Governments to make an order  The question of the constitutional validity of the impugned statute has to be approached with great caution in view of these provisions of the Constitution . Preventive detention means a complete negation of  A person detained under a law of preventive detention has a right to obtain information as to the grounds of his detention and has also the right to make a representation protesting against an order of preventive  Article 22 says no person will be deprived of life or liberty without having been given a fair trial or a fair hearing . It was argued that a law made under article 22 would not be  Article 19 (5) is a saving and an enabling provision . It empowers Parliament to make a law imposing reasonable restriction on the right of freedom of movement . Article 22 (7)  Article 21 lays down sub-stantive law as giving protection to life and liberty in as much as it says that they cannot be deprived except accord- ing to the procedure established by  Section 7 of the impugned Act gives full effect to the provisions of article 22 sub clause (5) and enacts that representation has to be made to the Central or State Gov  Section 12 purports to comply with conditions laid down in clause (7) of article 22. It was, however, argued that in substance and reality it has failed to comply . The  Section 12 of Act IV of 1950 has reversed this process contrary to the intention of the Constitution . Clause (7) gives permission to make a law for dispensing with an advisory board by  Article 22 clause (7) of article -9,2 is in contravention of clear provisions of article 22 and makes clause (4) nugatory to all intents and purposes  Section 12 of Act IV of 1950 does not fulfil the requirements of clause (7) of article 22 of the Constitution and is not a law which falls within the ambit of that clause  Section 14 of Act IV of 1950 has been impugned on the ground that it contravenes and abridges the provisions of articles 22 (5) and 32 of the Constitution .  The petitioner, it is said, was initially arrested in Malabar on 17th of December, 1947, and prosecution was started against him on various charges for having delivered certain violent speeches  Mr. Nambi- ar was served with a fresh order of detention under section 3 (1) of the [Preventive Detention Act, 1950]. On behalf of the respondents  In India it is the Constitution that is supreme and Parliament as well as the State Legislatures must not only act within the limits of their respective legislative spheres as demarcated in the three  The detention of a man even as a precautionary measure certainly deprives him of his personal liberty . Article 22 secures to all persons certain fundamental rights in relation to arrest and detention .  Article 22 of the Constitution gives a clear authority to the legislature to take away the funda- mental rights relating to arrest and detention, which are secured by the'first two clauses of  The police may arrest any man and throw him into prison without assigning any reasons; they may search his belongings on the slightest pretext; he may be subjected to a sham trial and even pun  Article 19 enunciates certain particular forms of civil liberty independently of the rights dealt with under article 21 . Article 20 has no application so far as the law relating to preventive detention is concerned  Article 19: citizens shall have the right to move freely throughout the territory of India . Clause (5) lays down that nothing in them shall affect the operation of any existing law in so  Article 19 (1) (d) relates not to general rights of locomotion but to the particular right of shifting or moving from one part of the Indian territory to another, without any  In ordinary language "personal liberty" means liberty relating to or concerning the person or body of the individual; and "per- sonal liberty" in this sense is the antithesis of  The deprivation of personal liberty may entail as a consequence the loss or abridgement of many of the rights described in article 19, but that is because the nature of these rights is such  The phrase "due process of law" dates back to the beginning of the 13th century A.D. The phrase is used in article 21 of the Indian Constitution . The Supreme Court  It is not within the competence of the Congress to make any process a "due process of law" by its mere will . To a large extent they are the principles of English common law  The Fifth Amendment was interpreted as a restriction on proce- dure, and particularly the judicial procedure, by which the Government exercised its powers . During this period it was not considered to  The extent to which the Court can inter- fere with exercise of police powers by the State has not been clearly defined by judicial pronouncements . The later decisions, though not quite uniform  The Indian Constitution did not want to intro- duce into our system the elements of uncertainty, vagueness and changeability that have grown round the "due process" doctrine in America  The Indian Constitution reproduces, save in one particular, the language of article 31 of the Japanese Constitution . Article 31 makes it clear that the word "law" is equivalent to State-  Article 22 (7) (a) of the Constitution empowers the Parliament to prescribe the circumstances under which, and the class or classes of cases in which, a person may be detained  There are altogether six 36 280 heads or subjects in the two Items in the legislative lists which deal with preventive detention . With the exception of the last head, all the remaining five have been  Sub-clause (a) of article 22 (7) lays down a purely enabling provision and Parliament, if it so chooses, may pass any legislation in terms of the same .  Article 22, clause (5), of the Constitution lays down as a fundamental right that when a person is detained for preventive detention, the authority making the order shall, as soon as may  In England Parliament is supreme and there is no limitation upon its legislative powers . The English Courts have to interpret and apply the law; they have no authority to declare such a law illegal or  There is no such provision in the Constitution of any other country that I know of . Parliament and State Legislatures have power to enact preventive detention laws even in peacetime . Such a law  Article 246 clearly puts a definite limitation on the wide legislative powers given by article 246 . It is certainly within the competency of the Court to judge and declare whether there has been any contra  The working of our complex system, full of checks and restraints on legislative, executive and judicial power is favourable to liberty and justice . It is an error to suppose that liberty consists in a  Each of these rights is liable to be curtailed by laws made or to be made by the State to the extent mentioned in several clauses (2) to (6) of article 19  Harries C.J. of Calcutta in his unreported judgment in Miscellaneous Case No. 166 of 1950 (K.shitindra v. The Chief Secretary of West Bengal  Blackstone divided the rights attached to the person into two classes, namely, "personal security" and "personal liberty" Under the head "Personal security" Blackstone included several rights,  The words "throughout the territory of India" only indicate that our Constitution does not guarantee to its citizens the right of free movement in or into foreign territory . West Bengal (1)  Free movement of citizens may have to be restricted in the interest of the general public . Members of the, Sched- uled Tribes who are generally impecunious and constitute a  The rights protected by article 19 (1) relate to rights attached to the person, i.e. to (e) and (g) are rights which only a free citizen,  Article 19 has no bearing on the validity or otherwise of preventive detention . Article 20 is concerned with providing protection against ex-post facto laws, double jeopardy and self-incrimination . Article  The word "established" means, amongst other things, "enacted" by law . No procedure can be said to have ever been "enact" by those principles . The word  After the War of Independence the Constitu- tions of the United States were drawn up in writing . The majority of those who framed the Constitution were lawyers and had closely studied the Comment  American Courts gradually arrogated to themselves the power to revise all legislations . "Due process of law" became a palladium covering all manner of individual rights . Supreme Court refused to define  In Westervelt v. Gregg, Edwards J. defined it thus:"Due process of law undoubtedly means, in the due course of legal proceedings, according to those rules 204 u.  The English principle of due process of law is, therefore, more in accord with our Constitution than the American doctrine which has been evolved for serving quite a differ- ent system .  The Court, however, brought in principles of (1) [44 Minn. 97.]318 natural justice under the due process clause . The Constitution has by article 21 required a procedure  Article 21 as construed by me will, if nothing else, cer- tainly protect every person against the executive . Article 21 of our Constitution read with article 32 also gives us some  The word "law" clearly cannot, in the context,mcan princi- ples of natural justice . Article 114 of the Weimar Constitution is on the same lines and expressed  The learned Attorney-General, on the other hand, urged that article 21 has nothing to do with preventive detention at all and that preventive detention is wholly covered by article 22 (4)  Article 246 authorises the appropriate legislature to make a law for preventive deten- tion in terms of Entry 9 in List I and/or Entry 3 in List III of the Seventh Schedule  The only limitation put upon the legislative power is that it must provide some procedure and at least incorporate the minimum requirements laid down in article 22 (4) to (7) of article 22  The detention can well be under the very law which the Parliament makes under sub- clauses (a) and (b) of clause (7) I am unable to construe clause (  Section 14 of the Act prevents the detenu from disclosing to the Court the grounds communicated to him is not in conformity with the Constitution . Article 22 provides for protection by insisting on some  The period of his detention under the impugned Act 334 has not gone beyond three months and, in the circumstances, this application should, in my opinion, stand dismissed. Further,