 The appellant was a company registered in the erstwhile Baroda State . In connection with the assessment year 1942- 43 the Income-tax Officer Ahemdabad held that certain sale  Appeal from the judgment and order dated March 30th and 31st, 1960 of the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 2 of 1949 . Keshav Mills Co.  The appeal should be placed before a Special Bench of seven Judges . The Attorney-General contended that he wanted this Court to reconsider the said two decisions .  High Court held that sums in question were not debts due from British Indian Merchants but sale proceeds of the goods sold by the appellant to merchants in British India and that such sale proceeds were received  The High Court had directed the Tribunal to furnish a Supplementary Statement of the Case on the following points "On the finding of the Tribunal that all the cheques were received in Bhavn  Mr. Palkhivala says the High Court has exceeded its jurisdiction under s. 66(4) of the Act . S.66(4), must be read with S  The High Court has no power to ask for a fresh statement of case with a direction that the Tribunal should go into the matter again and record further evidence . In the Commissioner of Income-  The Privy Council appears to have assumed that the High Court can, in exercise of its powers under S. 66(4), call for additional evidence . The argument is that the facts  The dispute was taken to the Privy Council by the Trustees of the Tribune Trust . In the High Court, there was a sharp difference of opinion between the Judges who heard the reference  It would be open to this Court to hold that though the view taken by the High Court is reasonably possible, the alternative view which is also reasonably possible is better and should be preferred .  The principle of stare decision, no doubt, cannot be pressed into service in cases where the jurisdiction of this Court to reconsider and revise its earlier decisions is invoked . But nevertheless, the normal  There is no doubt and indeed no dispute before us that the question of law must arise from the Tribunal's order and the statement of the case must be confined to the facts already brought on  The scheme indicates that evidence has to be led primarily before the Income- tax Officer . Additional evidence may be led before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner or even before the Tribunal, subject to  There are no words expressly limiting the powers of the High Court under S.68(4), there is no reason why the said powers should receive a narrow and limited construction . No reported