Dr. AR.Lakshmanan & Tarun Chatterjee Dr. AR.Lakshmanan, J.The Petitioner is a lawyer by profession.Respondent No.1 is Union of India, respondent No.2 is a statutory body, respondent Nos.3 & 4 are the leading national daily newspapers and respondent No.5 & 6 are news agencies.The present petition involves a substantial question of law and public importance on the fundamental right of the citizens, regarding the freedom of speech and expression as enshrined under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India.The petitioner's grievance is that the freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the newspaper industry is not keeping balance with the protection of children from harmful and disturbing materials.Article 19(1)(a) guarantees freedom of speech and expression of individual as well as press.It acknowledges that the press is free to express its ideas but on the same hand, individual also has right to their own space and right not to be exposed against their will to other's expressions of ideas and actions.By way of this petition, the petitioner requested the Court to direct the authorities to strike a reasonable balance between the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the press and the duty of the Government, being signatory of United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989 and Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to protect the vulnerable minors from abuse, exploitation and harmful effects of such expression.The petitioner requested the Court to direct the concerned authorities to provide for classification or introduction of a regulatory system for facilitating climate of reciprocal tolerance which may include:- (a) an acceptance of other people's rights to express and receive certain ideas and actions; and (b) accepting that other people have the right not to be exposed against their will to one's expression of ideas and actions.The reciprocal tolerance is further necessary considering the growing tendency among youngsters and minors in indulging in X-rated jokes, SMS and MMS.We heard Mr. Ajay Goswami, petitioner-in-person and Mr. Harish Chandra, learned senior counsel, Mr. P.H.Parekh, Mr. Sanjay Kumar, Mr. A.K.Seth, Mr. Gopal Jain, Mr. Vimal Chandra, Mr. S. Dave, learned counsel appearing for the respondents and the entire documents placed before us.The Lawyer Petitioner who appeared in person submitted that he filed this petition to seek protection from this Court to ensure that minors are not exposed to sexually exploitative materials, whether or not the same is obscene or is within the law.The real objective is that the nature and extent of the material having sexual contents should not be exposed to the minors indiscriminately and without regard to the age of minor.The discretion in this regard should vest with parents, guardians, teachers or experts on sex education.The petitioner is not in any way seeking restrain on the freedom of press or any censorship prior to the publication of article or other material.The petitioner is only seeking for the regulation at the receiving end and not at the source. 