Suppl.SCR 76 (11 December 1961) 11/12/1961 SHAH, J.C. SHAH, J.C. SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ) SUBBARAO, K. DAYAL, RAGHUBAR MUDHOLKAR, J.R. CITATION: 1962 AIR 1183 1962 SCR Supl.(2) 76 CITATOR INFO : F [1963 SC 640] (13) R 1970 SC1102 (13) RF [1975 SC 32] (36) Road Transport-Nationalisation of routes- Scheme-Initiation by State Government, if invalid- Cancellation of permit-Whether can be challenged- [Motor Vehicles Act, 1939] (4 of 1939), ss.68C, 68D and 68F.The appellant, whose permit for plying stage carriage was shortly to expire, applied for its renewal.The renewal application was published in the Gazette calling for objections.The State Government published a notification proposing to nationalise the route.The permit was renewed for three years for a part of the route but an endorsement was made thereon authorising the appellant to ply on the remaining part of the route for four months.The appellants filed objections to the proposed scheme for nationalisation.The objections were heard by the Joint Secretary, Judicial Department, who approved the scheme with certain modifications.The scheme was published in the Gazette.Thereafter, a notification was issued under s. 68F of the Motor Vehicles Act cancelling the appellant's renewed permit.Under the Scheme the stage carriages of the State Transport Undertaking could ply on the route without obtaining permits.The appellant challenged the validity of the scheme and the cancellation of his licence.^ Held, that the scheme was valid and the appellant's licence was properly cancelled.Section 68C of the Motor Vehicles Act required the scheme to be initiated by the State Transport Undertaking.Even though the scheme in the present case was actually initiated by the State Government there was no non-compliance with the provisions of s. 68C.There was no difference between an undertaking run by a department of the State Government and that run by the State Government.In either case the undertaking was run by the State and it was a State transport undertaking within the meaning of s. 68C.Initiation of the scheme by the State Government running an undertaking was initiation by the statutory authority i.e., the State Transport undertaking.The appellant could not be allowed to challenge the validity of the scheme on the ground that the Joint Secretary was not lawfully invested with the authority to hear objections and to approve the scheme as the point was not raised at the proper stage.77 Gullapalli Nageswara Rao v. Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation, [1959] Supp.1 S.C.R.319, applied.The scheme having been validly promulgated and having become final under s. 68D(3) it had the effect of extinguishing all rights of the appellant to ply his stage carriage under his permit and he could not maintain a petition under Art.226 of the Constitution.The order passed by the Regional Transport Authority cancelling the appellant's permit was purely consequential on the scheme and could not be challenged if the scheme was valid. 