Markandey Katju, J."Marte hain aarzoo mein marne ki Maut aati hai par nahin aati" \-- Mirza Ghalib 1\.Heard Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned senior counsel for the petitioner, learned Attorney General for India for the Union of India Mr. Vahanvati, Mr. T. R. Andhyarujina, learned Senior Counsel, whom we had appointed as amicus curiae, Mr. Pallav Sisodia, learned senior counsel for the Dean, KEM Hospital, Mumbai, and Mr. Chinmay Khaldkar, learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra.2 2\.Euthanasia is one of the most perplexing issues which the courts and legislatures all over the world are facing today.This Court, in this case, is facing the same issue, and we feel like a ship in an uncharted sea, seeking some guidance by the light thrown by the legislations and judicial pronouncements of foreign countries, as well as the submissions of learned counsels before us.The case before us is a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, and has been filed on behalf of the petitioner Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug by one Ms. Pinki Virani of Mumbai, claiming to be a next friend.3\.It is stated in the writ petition that the petitioner Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug was a staff Nurse working in King Edward Memorial Hospital, Parel, Mumbai.On the evening of 27th November, 1973 she was attacked by a sweeper in the hospital who wrapped a dog chain around her neck and yanked her back with it.He tried to rape her but finding that she was menstruating, he sodomized her.To immobilize her during this act he twisted the chain around her neck.The next day on 28th November, 1973 at 7.45 a.m. a cleaner found her lying on the floor with blood all over in an unconscious condition.It is alleged that due to strangulation by the dog chain the supply of oxygen to the brain stopped and the brain got damaged.It is alleged that the Neurologist in the Hospital found that she had plantars' 3 extensor, which indicates damage to the cortex or some other part of the brain.She also had brain stem contusion injury with associated cervical cord injury.It is alleged at page 11 of the petition that 36 years have expired since the incident and now Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug is about 60 years of age.She is featherweight, and her brittle bones could break if her hand or leg are awkwardly caught, even accidentally, under her lighter body.She has stopped menstruating and her skin is now like papier mache' stretched over a skeleton.She is prone to bed sores.Her wrists are twisted inwards.Her teeth had decayed causing her immense pain.She can only be given mashed food, on which she survives.It is alleged that Aruna Ramachandra Shanbaug is in a persistent negetative state (p.v.s.)and virtually a dead person and has no state of awareness, and her brain is virtually dead.She can neither see, nor hear anything nor can she express herself or communicate, in any manner whatsoever. 