536; 1977 (2) SCR 190; 1977 (2) SCC 424 (25 November 1976) RAY, A.N.(CJ) RAY, A.N.(CJ) BEG, M. HAMEEDULLAH SINGH, JASWANT CITATION: 1977 AIR 536 1977 SCR (2) 190 1977 SCC (2) 424 Campanies Act 1956-- S. 108--Scope of--"Shall not register transfer of shares" --If mandatory or directory--Tests for deciding.Interpretation--Mandatory or directory--Tests for deter- mining--Non- compliance not declared an offence--If provision could be called directory.Section 108 of the [Companies Act, 1956] provides that a company shall not register transfer of shares unless a proper instrument of transfer duly stamped and executed by or on behalf of the transferor and by or on behalf of the transferee has been delivered to the company along with the share certificate.The appellants and the respondents were members of a family.The family held shares in a company, and in addi- tion, the members were doing partnership business.To realise large sums of income tax dues from the firms and individual partners, the Income-tax Department issued no- tices to the company to pay to that department any amount due to the firm or its partners.A receiver appointed by the Collector took possession of the appellants' shares along with duly signed blank transfer deeds.Later shares belonging to the family.in the company were attached under O.21, r. 46, C.P.C.In the meantime the appel- lants in settlement of their accounts with the respondents agreed for transfer of certain shares to the respondents as soon as the transfer became permissible.At the instance of respondents 1 and 2, however, the company, by a resolution, transferred the appellants' shares to the respondents.The appellants gave notice to the respondents that the shares under attachment of the Incometax Department had been sold by the Collector and that the transfers -were illegal and void.The respondents contended that it was not a case of transfer but one of transmission.In a petition under s. 155 of the Companies Act the appellants contended that tie transfer was in contravention of the mandatory provisions of s. 108 and that the shares had been attached by the Collector under O.21, r. 46 C.P.C.A single Judge of the High Court held the transfer to be illegal and void.On appeal a Division Bench held that the provisions of s. 108 were directory and not mandatory and that the provisions of s. 64, C.P.C.and O.21, r. 46 pre- vailed over the prohibitory order contained in Form 18 in Appendix E of Schedule I of the C.P.C.but that the attach- ment and appointment of Receiver did not divest a party of his right to his property.Allowing the appeal, HELD: The provisions of s. 108 of the Companies Act are mandatory and the High Court erred in holding that they were directory.[197B] (1)(a) The words "shall not register" are mandatory in character.The mandatory character is strengthened by the negative form of the language which is used to emphasise the insistence of compliance with the provisions of the Act. 