  : This is an application for judicial review pursuant to section 18.1 of the Federal Court Act , R.S.1985, c. F-7, in respect of a decision made by visa officer Robert Miller at the Canadian High Commission in London, United Kingdom ("U.K."), dated September 6, 2001, refusing the applicant a student visa.FACTS  Wei Zhang (the "applicant") is a citizen of the People's Republic of China ("PRC" or "China"), born in the PRC in 1982.After graduating from high school, he obtained a student visa for Ireland.Since November 1999 he has been residing in Dublin, Ireland, studying first English, then Business Language.In April 2001, he applied to the Canadian High Commission in London, U.K., for a student visa to come to study in Canada.His application included a formal acceptance at Lasalle College in Montreal for a three-year Business Program leading to a Diplôme d'études collégiales (D.E.C.), a post-secondary college diploma.His application was rejected on April 23, 2001.However, the decision must be based on reasonable findings of fact. ; 13 Imm.This test is cited with approval in (T.D.), a case that bears many similarities to the one at bar. In  , the applicant had also applied for a student authorization to the London High Commission while a temporary resident in Ireland. In his decision granting a reassessment of the application, Justice Kelen stated that the visa officer had relied on factors which the Court found highly irrelevant: the fact that the applicant first went to Ireland to study and then had applied for a student visa from the U.K. because it was easier than to apply from China; the fact that the officer had considered that there was no reason not to continue her studies in Ireland or the U.K.  Such an argument had already been found to be irrelevant by Justice Rouleau in ; 199 F.T.R.302 (T.D.), which Justice Kelen cites in  . From the CAIPS notes and the visa officer's affidavit, it is not clear what weight is given to the fact that the application is made while the applicant is in Ireland and not in China. Other visa officer decisions have been cancelled because the visa officer had not sufficiently taken into account the ties of family which bound the applicant to their home country.In  , supra, after faulting the visa officer for taking into account irrelevant factors, Justice Kelen found that the officer did not take into account a very important relevant factor, namely the applicant's ties to China which would make her return likely.It is on his father's recommendation that he wishes to pursue a course of studies in Montreal. (T.D. The Supreme Court of Canada has stressed the importance of providing the Court with a factual basis to decide a Charter issue O.A.C.239; 30 C.C.C.1.In a unanimous decision, Man.R. 