 Tremblay-Lamer, J. : This is an application pursuant to subsection 72(1) of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act , S.C. 2001, c. 27 (the "Act" or "IRPA"), for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Protection Division of the Immigration and Refugee Board (the "IRB" or the "Board") dated July 5, 2006, wherein the Board determined that the applicant was not a Convention refugee according to Section 96 of the Act, nor a "person in need of protection" according to Section 97 of the Act.I .II.Standard of Review  at para.a balance of probabilities) establishing the facts" on which he relies ( [2003] F.C.J.No. Thus, the present case raises the issue of the interpretation of the meaning of the terms "personally" and "generally" as contained in s. 97(1) of the Act: A person in need of protection is a person in Canada whose removal to their country or countries of nationality or, if they do not have a country of nationality, their country of former habitual residence, would subject them personally  (b) to a risk to their life or to a risk of cruel and unusual treatment or punishment if   The test under s. 97 of the Act is distinct from the test under section 96.As Rouleau J. noted in [2004] F.C.J. Accordingly, documentary evidence which illustrates the systematic and generalized violation of human rights in a given country will not be sufficient to ground a section 97 claim absent proof that might link this general documentary evidence to the applicant's specific circumstances ( [2007] F.C.J.103 (QL), at para.21; [2005] F.C.J.506 (QL), at para.28;  , supra , at para. Recently, the term "generally" was interpreted in a manner that may include segments of the larger population, as well as all residents or citizens of a given country.  [2005] F.C.J.Emphasis added Snider J. concluded that the Board had not erred in its determination given that the risk described by the applicant was one faced by all Colombians who have or will have children. Recently in  , supra, Justice Michel Beaudry, dealt with an individual situated similarly to the present applicant: a Haitian man who alleged a fear of, among other things, armed gangs in Haiti who target Haitians who have been abroad, foreigners, and anyone who they perceive to have wealth.The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has recommended the suspension of forced returns to Haiti. In the recent case of [2007] F.C.J. To be certified, the question must be one which transcends the interests of the immediate parties to the litigation, contemplates issues of broad significance or general application, and be one that is determinative of the appeal ( Canada (Minister of Citizenship and    at para.4). 