The refugee determination process under the Act is subject to both s. 7 of the Charter and to s. 2 of the Canadian Bill of Rights , and denial of a right to make a claim to refugee status without a hearing may violate both the Charter and the Bill of Rights ( D.L.R.(4th) 422; 14 C.R.R. Provisions of the Act , analogous to those applied in this case, that is, "access criteria" of another sort, were upheld in D.L.R.(4th) 151; 14 C.R.R.Reference was made to the distinction referred to in , at 1117 (1st Cir.), under American constitutional law, between belief and activity and to the fact that mere membership in an organization is not an offence known to the law in Canada. D.L.R. With reference to the term "public interest", it is urged that the court should note and follow the comments of Chief Justice Lamer in , at p. 194, addendum 147 N.R.335; 51 Q.A.C.No amount of judicial interpretation of the term 'public interest' would be capable of rendering it a provision which gives any guidance for legal debate." In  the Supreme Court was not concerned with the Immigration Act , rather the case concerned s. 515(10)(b) of the Criminal Code which authorized pretrial detention of an accused by court order where that was "necessary in the public interest or for the protection or safety of the public, having regard to all the circumstances including any substantial likelihood that the accused will, if he is released from custody, commit a criminal offence or interfere with the administration of justice". The concept of "vagueness" as a flaw in criminal legislation violating s. 7 of the Charter was earlier dealt with by the court in , at pp.281-282; 114 N.S.R. The standard to which Gonthier, J., refers as applicable to all enactments, whether civil, criminal, administrative or other, is one that ensures sufficient precision to provide guidance for legal debate, i.e., whether the circumstances are or are not within the intended application of the enactment in question.In passing, I note that in the application of this standard in the later  case, Gonthier, J., dissented from the majority view expressed by Lamer, C.J., finding the term "public interest" as used in the Criminal Code provision concerning detention prior to trial was not so vague as to contravene constitutional requirements.The basis of constitutional issues is not here laid, procedurally or in terms of the issues arising on the facts as established.There are, moreover, differences between the circumstances here and those in  where the term "public interest" was found unconstitutionally vague as used in s. 515(1)(b) of the Criminal Code . I am not persuaded to so find.  Imm.There is, moreover, no evidence of prejudice caused to the applicant by reason of the delay in considering his claim.As Hugessen, J.A., commented in  , a refugee claimant is asserting a claim which he or she bears the burden of establishing, and evidence of any prejudice suffered is for him or her to produce.Finally, in  his lordship referred to the basis of the law relating to refugees, in the following terms.The purpose of the refugee system both in international and domestic law is not to provide an easy means for immigrants to find a new and more desirable country of residence; it is to furnish a safe haven to those who rightly fear they will be persecuted in their country of origin."(  , at p. 45 of 14 Imm.L.R.(2d).See also Imm.(2d) 153, at p. 154 (F.C.A.).) As the Court of Appeal found in  , so I here find that in the circumstances of this case where there is no evidence or inference of prejudice to the applicant as a result of delay, delay does not give rise to remedies under the Charter .The well known principles, set out by Mr. Justice La Forest in O.A.C.210; 52 D.L.R.Rather, the legislation in force at the time the decisions were made was given effect.(Per Rouleau, J., in Imm.It is not retrospective legislation to adopt a rule that henceforth excludes persons from Canada on the basis of their conduct in the past.(Per Hugessen, J.A., in , at p. 65; 91 D.L.R. 