A conversion does not erase a lifetime of indoctrination:   . While I agree with the applicant that it might not be surprising that a 38-year-old male may not have a solid grasp of the tenets of the religion in which he was raised, I am unable to conclude that the Board's findings as to the applicant's credibility were patently unreasonable.The document was produced at the Board's request, so if there were concerns, the Board had a duty to ask for the original or advise of the concerns:    (T.D.). There was no opportunity to present evidence about the form of marriage certificates issued 45 years ago or to present the original.The applicant was denied a meaningful opportunity to participate in the hearing because of this omission:   . The applicant cites a long line of authorities for the proposition that the Board has no expertise respecting foreign documents.It must base its finding on evidence:   . The respondent argues that the marriage document was submitted after the concern about the applicant's Shi'a background was already on the record and the Board was entitled to find that the document did not alleviate its credibility concerns.The Board has expertise in determining the probative value to be given to documents:    at para.6;    (T.D.).Some corroboration is necessary and the onus is on the applicant to prove the genuineness of the document:   .The onus is not on the Board to prove that the document is fraudulent:   .The cases cited by the applicant are distinguishable as they involved original documents, not copies, as in the present case. I found that the Board had no particular expertise or evidence before it to assist in determining the validity of Iranian documents and that the Board in that instance had erred in not giving the applicant an adequate opportunity to respond to its concerns about the document in question, a police summons. The applicant argues that the analysis failed to provide adequate reasons and so amounts to a breach of fairness:    (C.A.). The respondent contends that notwithstanding the weakness of the section 97 analysis, the applicant's lack of credibility was determinative for all grounds of protection.Even if the Board did err, the error is not material in the context of this case, so there would be no purpose in remitting the matter to the Board for a redetermination:   . This Court seems to have come to a consensus that a separate section 97 analysis is not required if there is no evidence that could go to establishing that the person is in need of protection:   . In   , it was held that the Board addressed the documentation before it and that due to important contradictions in the claimant's evidence, the Board's negative credibility findings were such that there was "no other evidence" that could have led it to find that the claimant was a person in need of protection.Therefore, in that case, even though the Board erred in failing to specifically analyse the claim pursuant to section 97 of IRPA, the court held that the Board's conclusion that the applicant was not a "person in need of protection" pursuant to subsections 97(1)(a) and (b) was open to it on the evidence. (T.D. 