 Mettupalayam is a small town situate in Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu . The majority of the members belong to 'Badaga' community which had been declared to  The appellant-Union, however, on or about 19.4. 1982 served a charter of demands upon the Society claiming, inter alia, permanency in service and other benefits .  A writ petition was filed in the Madras High Court which was marked as W.P. No.9333 of 1985 praying for issuance of writ of mandamus directing the State to  The Government has not taken any action in spite of the averments contained in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the counter affidavits . It is for the Government to pass orders under Sec. 10  Determination of such relationship, Mr. Prasad would aruge, do not depend upon the statutory liability of the employer . Economic reality, the learned counsel would contend, has also  The objects of the Society are stated as under : To encourage thrift and cooperation among members; To purchase seeds, manure and agricultural requirements for sale or distribution to other cooperative societies; To  The nature of the nature of this photo series is being shown . This is the first of the series to be shown in this week's gallery .  A further complain was made that the Society employs small boys in grading, weighing and stacking of goods . The society cannot keep quiet by stating it is the contractors job and it has no responsibility  The Tribunal had further held that the Society acts as a commission agent . Growers and merchants are free to engage their own porters and graders or can do the work by themselves .  Employment and non-employment indisputably is a matter which is specified in the Second and the Third Schedules of the Industrial Disputes Act . Non-employment being negative of the  In order to entertain a complaint under the Maharashtra Act, it has to be established that the claimant was an employee of the employer against whom complaint is made, under the ID Act . But  Industrial Tribunal held that a cooperative canteen was promoted with the consent of the management by serving members of the Bank staff, it was held that there existed a relationship of master and servant .  Workmen were engaged as gardeners to sweep, clean, maintain and look after the lawns and parks inside factory premises and campus of the appellant through agencies of the Respondent Nos.  The greater the amount of direct control exercised over the person rendering the services by the person contracting for them the stronger the grounds for holding it to be a contract of service, and similarly the  There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that where a person is engaged through an intermediary or otherwise for getting a job done, a question may arise as the appointment of an intermediary was merely sham and  The Tribunal is not concerned with whether the concerned workmen have been able to prove that they are workmen of the Society. They have not. The decision of the Tribunal as affirmed by