 A batch of writ petitions preferred by the applicants for allotment of industrial plots in the development scheme framed by the Union Territory, Chandigarh shortly referred to as UTC has been disposed  Some allottees who did not give consent for reduced size of plots challenged the action of the Administration of UTC in the High Court . The non-consentees made a three-  Non-consentees are aggrieved by denial to them of alternative plots . Consentees feel aggrieved . Chandigarh Administration, during long pendency of litigation, a new  Allottees of plots falling in 900 metres would have no right to claim compensation or damage from the Administration . Chandigarh Administration had prepared a scheme, carved out plots, auction  Chandigarh Administration is guilty of gross mistake in including in its development scheme, a portion of land covered by forest and land with restrictions under the Aircrafts Act . The Chandig  Allottees paid price for plots and incurred expenses in preparing their industrial projects . The allottees staked their money and plans for setting up their industries . The representations made to them  The statutory compulsion and the rule of fairness have both to be evenly balanced . This Court cannot allow the Administration to commit breach of law and harm public interest . The allottees of the  The High Court said directing the consentees to pay the price for the alternative plots on the price prevailing on the date of draw i.e. 27.3.1991 is prima  Chandigarh Administration has filed a detailed affidavit on 16.2.2004 showing the latest position with regard to the availability of alternative plots in the same scheme in phase-I &  A chart (annexure-A) annexed to the affidavit shall be read as part of our order . From the available plots of different sizes totalling 80, both the consentees  The High Court rejects relief to remaining class of consentees or non-consentees . The total available plots of different sizes as mentioned in Annexure-A to the affidavit of the  All claims of remaining consentees or non-consentees or allottees of one kanal plot, who were not parties in the cases before the High Court, stand rejected .