 Four sons of Motilal Sanghi, the family patriarch who died in 1961, effected a de facto partition of the then existing three family business . Whether in the form of partnership  No one could obtain a stay of proceedings in the Company Petition No. 128 of 1985 before the High Court of Bombay which appointed a Receiver with respect to the Sanghi Motors Private Limited  The orders of learned Single Judge of High Court of Rajasthan accepting the scheme of reconstruction-cum-family settlement were challenged in appeal filed by M.K. Sanghi bearing  Since A.K. Sanghi is dead, Civil Appeal No. 2763 of 2002 has been pressed on behalf of his two sons . The High Court of Delhi has set aside  Learned Counsel for Uma Sanghi, widow of N.K. Sanghis sought to support the award and assail the judgments of Delhi High Court on the grounds already noticed .  Sanghi Motors Private Limited (Bombay) was not impleaded as a party and therefore no useful purpose will be served by interfering with the orders of the Delhi High Court rejecting  A.K. Sanghi Group argued that the companies are not parties to the arbitration proceedings and consequently the decree on the basis of award cannot bind the companies . Rajni Sangh  The object of the arrangement is to protect the family from long-drawn litigation or perpetual strifes which mar the unity and solidarity of the family . The family arrangements are governed by a  Rajni Sanghi undertakes to abide by her undertaking and liabilities under the amended Family Settlement dated 20.02.1995 . Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior advocate,  Privy Council came to an opinion that the Civil Procedure Code contains no general restriction of the parties liberty of contract with reference to their rights and obligations under the decree . Such agreement may not  Sanghi Motors (Bombay) is not a necessary party because all the shareholders and directors of the company are parties and in the context of present dispute the presence of company is a  The family arrangement was arrived at in spite of knowing the award for six years and obviously because the parties who are family members, were at loggerheads over the terms of the award . The