 These appeals are directed against common judgment dated February 4, 2010 rendered by the Division Bench of High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition Nos. 964 of 2006 to 9  On December 23, 2009 the Pratod/Gatneta of Sanghathana, Mrs. Jayshree Rajkumar Shinde gave a letter to the District  Writ Petition Nos. 964 of 2006 to 968 of 2006 and 971 of 2010 were filed by the appellants . The High Court by the impugned judgment dated February 4  A failure to verify annexures to the petition at the time of filing of the petition would not vitiate the proceedings nor would render the petition invalid nor would affect the jurisdiction of the  The claim of the appellants that before granting permission to the respondents to verify the annexures done on January 8, 2010 should be regarded as no verification in the eyes of law cannot be  The Maharashtra Local Authority Members' Disqualification Act, 1986 is a law for the time being in force . The Additional Collector, Pune was competent to entertain, hear and decide the  The plea that Additional Collector, Pune had no jurisdiction to decide disqualification petition filed by respondents need not detain in this Court any further . The argument that the appellants would not be  The fact that the 6 appellants had contested election as councillors of Bhor Municipal Council, District Pune as candidates of NCP is not in dispute . Mr. Yashawant  Six councillors of the Sanghathana and eight councillors of Congress (I) submitted a requisition dated December 29, 2009 for moving no confidence motion against the President Mr. Vittal  The whip was published in the newspaper dated December 28, 2009 forms part of the record . It was directed to the councillors of NCP not to sign any requisition for bringing a motion  The fact that the appellants had disobeyed the whip issued is not in disputed by them before this Court . The failure to file Form-I, Form-III and/or publication  The contention that based on the alleged breach of Rule (3) and Rule (4) of the Rules of 1987 has no substance and cannot be accepted . Explanation to Section 3 of  The plea that Additional Collector, Pune failed to exercise jurisdiction by not deciding the preliminary issue as to maintainability of the disqualification petition on the erroneous assumption that the High Court had directed