 The appeal arises out of a judgment and order dated May 14, 2002 passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Jabalpur in Writ Petition No. 3531 of 2001 .  Parliament enacted an Act called the [Madhya Pradesh Re-organisation Act, 2000], (Act 28 of 2000) The Act has been enacted with a view "to provide for the  The State of Madhya Pradesh State Administrative Tribunal was abolished in July 2001 . Sub-section (1) of the Act of Parliament declares that all Commissions, Authorities, Tribunals  The High Court of Madhya Pradesh, after hearing the parties, held that the provisions of sub-section (1) of the Act of 2000 are intra vires the Constitution . The  The High Court held that the State could not have ignored statutory and constitutional provisions . Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 74 of the Act of 2000 were thus ultra  Leave was granted by this Court and hearing was ordered to be expedited . Civil Appeal No.5327 of 2002 of 2002 was also ordered to hear along with civil appeal No. 53  An attempt to interfere with judicial functioning of the Tribunal is violative of the "basic feature of the Constitution" which protects and safeguards the independence of judiciary . The learned counsel appearing for the  The High Court of Madhya Pradesh dismissed the appeal in Mukesh Kumar Misra v Union of India and Another v. Union of Indian and Others (W.P. No.P  An Administrative Tribunal constituted under the 1985 Act cannot be abolished, says the Indian Supreme Court . The Court was not impressed by the argument of the learned counsel for the appellants that in the  The power to delegate legislative functions generally is not warranted under the Constitution of India at any stage . The doctrine of conditional legislation or subsidiary legislation is equally upheld under all the Constitutions .  The High Court held that the power conferred by Parliament on the State Government to abolish Tribunal on fulfillment of conditions specified in sub-section (1) of Section 74 of the Act of 2000  The Rajasthan Tenants' Protection Ordinance was promulgated for two years . It was extended by issuing a notification which was challenged . The Court upheld the provision observing that it was  L. Chandra Kumar held that power, authority and jurisdiction of High Courts under Articles 226 and 227 cannot be taken away even by an amendment in the Constitution . The decision rendered by five-  The State of Madhya Pradesh requested the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal for civil servants in the State . It was also contended that there is interference with judicial functioning of the Tribunal by the  The reading of above clause makes it clear that it empowered the State Government to decide whether it would confirm the order, to modify it or even to annul it . The power of judicial  Sub-section (4) of Section 74 of the Act of 2000 has limited application and could be invoked in case there is dispute between the successor States, but not otherwise . Sub-  It was argued that even if this Court comes to the conclusion that sub-section (1) of Section 74 of the Act of 2000 is intra-vires and constitutional confirming the view  In most of the cases dealt with by the State Administrative Tribunal, the parties accepted the orders of the Tribunal . It is only in few cases that the aggrieved party  public servant or