 Accused No.1-B.Raghuvir Acharya was the Trustee and General Manager, accused No.2- T.Ravi was the Fund Manager and accused  Accused No.1 B. R. Acharya and accused No.3  Hiten P. Dalal were convicted of criminal misconduct . The Special Court raised 30 points and determined  Court held that main allegation against accused No.1 is based on presumption that the endorsement on letter dated 9th March, 1992[Ext.17(i) was in the handwriting of  It is clear from the fact that the CMF has not claimed refund of the brokerage claimed by accused No.3 on the investment made by Andhra Bank /ABFSL. There  It is not disputed that CANCIGO units worth Rs.33 crores were purchased by Andhra Bank . The two financial institutions impliedly agreed to lend their name and allowed the  The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that accused No.3 made false representation by writing letter dated 9th March, 1992, (Ex.17) under his own signatures . Accused  The main allegation against accused No.1 is that he made endorsement on letter dated 9th March, 1992 [Ex.17(i) in his hand-writing . The prosecution relied  The court has no hesitation to hold that the learned Special Court was not correct in taking the view that the prosecution has successfully established the charges against accused No.1 and wrongly held him guilty  The appeal (Criminal Appeal No.1001 of 2001) succeeds and is allowed and the appellant  B.R. Acharya is acquitted of all the charges, his bail bonds shall  Special Court held that on 9th March, 1992 accused No.3 dishonestly claimed brokerage from CMF by putting brokers stamp and by disguising his investment of Rs.33 crores  Prosecution has proved that accused No.3 is guilty of making a false representation to CMF with full knowledge and it was so made to deceive CMF to part with an amount of  The High Court rejected Mr.Sharans argument with regard to the deemed acquittal in the circumstances of the case . We are, therefore, of the opinion that the question of deemed acqu  It is practically on these facts that the conviction of the appellant for an offence under s. 420 I.P.C. has been founded . The proviso to s. 4 of  The bail bonds of the appellant  Hiten P. Dalal, if he is on bail, shall stand cancelled and he is directed to be taken into custody to serve out the remainder