 Appeal No. 3401 of 2003 is filed by three appellants, i.e., Supreme Court Bar Association (Registered), through its Honorary Secretary Mr. Ashok Arora,  Rule 3 of the Rules and Regulations defines certain phrases . Rule 3(i) defines `Association' 6 to mean the Supreme Court Bar Association . There are four classes of Members as  The requisition dated January 10, 2003 was considered in the 10 Executive Committee meeting held on February 1, 2003 . It was decided to hold a special General Body Meeting on February 18,  Mr. B.D. Kaushik and Mr. A.K. Manchanda, the plaintiffs in Suit Nos. 100 of 2003 and 101 of 2003 respectively, filed applications  The Supreme Court has framed Rules called Supreme Court Rules, 1966 . Rule 1 states that only those advocates whose names are entered on the roll of any State Bar Council, maintained under the Advoc  The Supreme Court Bar Association, as the name suggests, is a society primarily meant to promote the welfare of the advocates generally practicing in the Supreme Court . The name, i.e.,  Rule 6 of the Rules and Regulations of the SCBA mentions the duties of Members . Rule 6(iii) provides that a member shall endeavour to provide full assistance to the court and competent  It is wrong to hold that limitations/restrictions on the exercise of right to vote and contest the elections amount to altering and/or amending and/ or changing Aims and  The impugned Rule only declares the eligibility of a member to contest and vote and does not take away ipso facto the right to vote . The challenge to this ineligibility  The right to vote is not an absolute right recognized in common law and is always subject to the statute/Rules creating such rights, it is equally well settled that the exercise of such right  It is settled law that no citizen has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(c) to become a member of a cooperative society . Section 30(2) of the Act even  The authority to frame, amend, vary and rescind such rules, undoubtedly, vests in the General Body of the Members of the Society . The power to amend the rules is implicit in  The plaintiffs/respondents who were seeking to challenge the impugned Rule which prescribed an eligibility clause to enable them to vote, have candidly admitted that they are not regular practitioners of  Mr. K.K.Venugopal, an august and well-known senior lawyer, submitted that the relief could have been confined only to the two plaintiffs/respondents .  The learned counsel has produced minutes of the meeting of the Interim Board of Management dated March 22, 2010 along with his written submissions for perusal of the Court . The learned senior counsel  There are more than ten thousand members of SCBA out of which only two thousand advocates are regular members who actually practice in this Court . Eight thousand non-regular members have taken over the  The Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record are advocates primarily practicing in the Supreme Court and are directly affected by the functioning of SCBA . Mr. D.K.Garg,  Not regular practitioners in the Supreme Court have become members of SCBA and claim a right, not only to vote and elect the office bearers of the Association but also seek to be elected  The SCBA has suggested that Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior advocate, Mr. P.P. Rao and Mr. Ranjit Kumar will be considered as  Court directs trial court to take up the two suits immediately for hearing and to dismiss/ dispose of the two appeals pending on its file .