 Sushil Sharma challenged judgment and order dated 19/02/2007 passed by the Delhi High Court in Criminal Appeal No.827 of 2003 confirming the death sentence awarded to him in  A2-Keshav was detained out of suspicion by SI Rajesh Kumar and PW-3 HC Kunju . The prosecution had made an application to the hospital authorities to preserve the  Police got information from Chanakya Puri Police Station that Maruti Car No.DL-2CA-1872 had been found abandoned at Malcha Marg near Gujarat Bhawan .  The appellant obtained anticipatory bail from the Sessions Court at Madras upon coming to know that the police were looking for him . The High Court has not relied upon this piece of evidence and  All the accused pleaded not guilty to the charges and claimed to be tried . During the trial, A2-Keshav moved an application confessing his guilt so far as the charges  The High Court dismissed the appeal and confirmed the death sentence awarded to him . The prosecution case is that the deceased wanted to make public her marriage with the appellant and the appellant did not want  There is no evidence on record to show that there were any constant quarrels between the appellant and the deceased . The story that the appellant suspected the fidelity of the deceased and, hence,  CW-6 Dr. Sarangi is MBBS and MD in forensic medicine and toxicology, having experience in the field and, therefore, his evidence cannot be lightly brushed aside .  CW-6 Dr. Sarangi stated that after the post-mortem was conducted on 5/7/1995 on the request of PW-81 IO Niranjan Singh, he  The licence which was allegedly recovered from Pai Vihar Hotel, Bangalore had expired on 18/1/1994 and its validity was extended only on 15/10/1995 . At the time  The prosecution has not been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt . The appellant, therefore, be acquitted . Unnecessary doubt is sought to be created as regards location of skull .  It is not impossible for the appellant to have flown from Jaipur- Mumbai-Chennai carrying a revolver . There is no prohibition in carrying the revolver in checked-in luggage  Dry human blood was found in the dicky of the said car . The key of this car was recovered at the Pai Vihar Hotel at Bangalore in the presence of the appellant and his  The prosecution has successfully proved that the appellant and the deceased were married and they were staying in the said flat as husband and wife . The appellant has not disputed that the Bagia Restaurant is  The defence has not elicited anything in the cross-examination of this witness, which can persuade us to discard his testimony . The appellant suspected her fidelity and beat her on account of this  CW-5 HC Majid Khan deposed that in the night of 2/7/1995, he was on duty on PCR vehicle driven by Ranbir Singh . They went to  On the basis of the evidence discussed above, we are satisfied that the prosecution has established the presence of the appellant at the Bagia Restaurant at around 10.30 p.m. on  Post-mortem of the dead body was conducted by CW-6 Dr. Sarangi on 5/7/1995 . Certain bloodstained articles like cloth pieces, chatai and  It is argued that in the recovery memo dated 4/7/1995, there is no mention of recovery of empty cartridges, lead bullet, etc. from the said flat on 5/  PW-70 Roop Singh, Ballistic Expert stated that he received one lead bullet among others for examination on 17/7/1995 . He stated that the lead bullet recovered from the said  There are telltale circumstances on record clearly supporting the prosecution case . The argument that in the dicky there ought to have been a pool of blood, will also have to be rejected .  The CFSL Report has established the link between the revolver recovered from the hotel room at Bangalore and the bullets found in the skull of the deceased . The High Court has found no reason to  It was argued that it is doubtful whether the death was caused due to firearm injuries . No question was put to any of the officers about the co- relation between the said two exhibits .  The trial court severely commented on the conduct of CW-6 Dr. Sarangi . The High Court has expunged those remarks, but we would not like to reopen the issue  The second post-mortem report records that the body was kept in the mortuary of Lady Hardinge Medical College in a plastic bag and was taken out from the same in the presence of  The body was lying in the mortuary of Lady Hardinge Medical College in a plastic bag and it was taken out from there in the presence of the Board of Doctors and the second post  In a case of this type there is likelihood of some lapses on the part of the investigating agency . We have not noticed any major lacuna in the investigation from which adverse inference can  A2-Keshav has been acquitted of offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 120-B of the IPC . The prosecution has, therefore, proved that the appellant alone  The court converted the death sentence into life sentence . Despite the fact that the offences committed by the accused were heinous in Mohd. [?CITATION?]. The appellant has no  The Constitution Bench observed that the death penalty should be imposed in rarest of rare/gravest cases . It was observed that while considering the question of sentence relative weight must be given  A real concern for the dignity of human life postulates resistance to taking a life through laws instrumentality . That ought not to be done save in the rarest of rare cases when the  In Manjit Singh, the prosecution was that Bhinder Kaur, the wife of the deceased-Sewa Singh was having illicit relationship with the accused, who were working as Sew  In Rajesh Kumar, the appellant was convicted for killing two children aged four-and-a-half years, and eight months in a brutal and diabolical manner . The motive  While on parole, he murdered his wife and the daughter, whom he had raped earlier, by giving repeated axe-blows on their heads . Trial court convicted him under Section 302 of  In Molai, a 16 year-old girl was preparing for her class 10th examination at her house . Both the accused took advantage of her being alone in the house and committed rape  At times, cases exhibiting premeditation and meticulous execution of the plan to murder by levelling a calculated attack on the victim to annihilate him, have been held to be fit cases  The medical evidence does not establish that the dead body of the deceased was cut . There is no recovery of any weapon like chopper which could suggest that the appellant had cut the body .  CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery on Flickr.com . Please submit your best shots of the day for next week's gallery . Visit CNN