 The National Commission has directed the appellant to pay a sum equivalent to US $71,615.75 with 5% interest from the date of the complaint, till its realization, and imposed  The National Commission, after considering the entire evidence on record, has come to the conclusion that the services rendered by the appellant-carrier was deficient and thereby, it was 4 liable to  It is held that it is not open to the appellant-carrier to have delivered the consignment to the notified party without informing the consignor . On the point of limitation,  India is a signatory to the Warsaw Convention of 1929, which is an International Agreement governing the liability of the air carrier in respect of international carriage of passengers, baggage and cargo by air  An increase in the amount specified as the maximum sum for which the carrier may be liable to a passenger, that is to say, the limits of the liability of the carrier in respect of  The Second Schedule of the CA Act provides for rules for the purpose of the Act . Rules apply to all international carriage of persons, luggage or goods performed by aircraft for reward . Sub-  The consignor and the consignee can respectively enforce all the rights given to them by rules 12 and 13, each in his own name . Rules 12, 13 and 14 do  The Consumer Protection Bill, 1986 seeks to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for the establishment of Consumer councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes and for matter connected  The preamble to the Act suggests that it is to provide better protection for the consumers and their interests . By this Act, the Legislature has constituted quasi-judicial Tribunals/  Ethiopian Airlines must be held accountable for contractual and commercial activities and obligations that it undertakes in India, the Indian Court said . Ethiopian Airlines can be subjected to suit under the Carriage Act  The term "courts" refers to places where justice is administered or refers to Judges who exercise judicial functions . Courts refer to civil courts, criminal courts and the High Courts . Tribun  In [?CITATION?], this Court held that the word "Court" denoted a place where justice was judicially administered, having been vested the jurisdiction for this purpose  A tribunal is not necessarily a court in the strict sense of exercising judicial power merely because (1) it gives a final decision; (2) it hears witnesses on oath; (3  In some situations, the word "Court" may be used in a wide, generic sense and not in a narrow and pedantic sense, says High Court .  Shri. Bhagat would lay emphasis on the fact that it was the duty of the consignor to place the correct address and particulars while making the airway bill, by  The National Commission was justified in holding that there is deficiency of service on the part of the carrier in not effecting the delivery of goods to the consignee .  The Complainant entrusted the goods to the carrier on 25th August, 1992 and the goods reached Madrid on 3rd September, 1992 . The complaint is filed within a period of 2  Clause 12 of the airway bill would not be of any ground for holding that petition filed by the Complainant is barred by period limitation (sic.) We are in total agreement with