 There were as many as 11 accused persons tried for the murder of Vivi @ Vivek @ Vivekanandan . The trial Court convicted the original accused No. 9, Kumar s/  The prosecution painted a picture that even after their marriage the fatal attraction which Venkatraman felt for Sunitha did not end and he remained a close friend of Vivekanandan and  Sivakumar (A-2) allegedly gave the photo of Vivekanandan to Kumar Vellaichami, Pavunraj @ Pavun (A) and Prince Kumar  The police party was led by Sivakumar (A-2) to his house where an amount of Rs.21,000 was seized which was kept in a polythene  Kumar, Pavunraj and Prince Kumar were convicted of the murder of Venkatraman (A-9) Kumar took him to his house in Anna Nagar and took out  Learned counsel argued that the prosecution story of conspiracy was on an extremely weak pedestal and had collapsed . Shri E.M.S. Anam, appearing for Ubaiadulla  The conviction of Kumar (A-9), Pavunraj and Prince Kumar will depend upon the evidence of eye-witnesses, the other circumstantial evidence of their complicity  The prosecution did not examine Shanmugsundaram, Nagarajan, M.P.S. Narayanan and Rajan . The second Identification Parade was held on 28  Two of them waylaid deceased Vivekanandan and the third assaulted him . This supported the theory that he was assaulted by three persons in all . The prosecution relied upon the evidence of  Selvaraj (PW-14) had specifically stated that he was doing his real estate business and that he along with his two other friends, namely, Shanmugasund  All the three eye-witnesses have been corroborated by the fact that in the Test Identification Parade, they identified the accused persons . We do not think that the evidence of these  The three eye-witnesses' account supported with by the evidence of Test Identification Parades is more than enough to seal the fate of Kumar (A-9), Pavunra  A common witness PW-56 was present both at the time of confessional statement and the subsequent discovery of aruval . Kumar (A-9) ultimately discovered the veechu  A person, named, Kumar (A-9) came from Tirunelveli and told his name as Kumar S/o Vellaichamy . The criticism was that no  The High Court has acquitted Ganesan (A-8), who was acquitted by the trial Court. The State Government has not challenged his acquittal, leaving only the other 49 accused  Venkatraman (A-1) was a major player in the conspiracy according to the prosecution's case . The prosecution pleaded that the idea of elimination of Vivekanandan (de  Krishnaraju Kalingarayar (PW-1) and Abhirama Vishnu are relatives of Vivekanandan (deceased) while Sunitha  There is nothing in his cross-examination to refute his claim that Venkatraman (A-1) had become upset after hearing about the proposed marriage of Vivekanandan (de  There can be no dispute, therefore, that Venkatraman (A-1) was madly in love with Sunitha (PW-3). He had also offered  Venkatraman (A-1) requested this witness to telephone Sunitha and ask as to whether she telephoned him . The witness expressed his inability to telephone at the  Tamil Selvan Abdul Karim, Sivakumar and Yusuf travelled from Coimbatore to Madurai on 17.7.1993 . The prosecution alleged that firstly these  K.P.Rajan (PW-18) claimed to be working as a Joint Secretary in the MLA's hostel in the year 1993 . He claimed from the documents  The examination of the accused has to be read as a whole. There is simply no evidence of any nexus between Sivakumar (A-2), Ubaiadulla (A  There can be no doubt that there was a conspiracy to eliminate Vivekanandan . However, the question remains as to whether there is sufficient evidence to connect John Pandian (A-7  The travels, even if accepted, do not connect him with the conspiracy at all as it could be for any purpose . The only other evidence against him is by Shanmugasund  Tamil Selvan @ Ubaiadulla, A-2 Sivakumar and this accused were not established at all . The prosecution has miserably failed to show that the money passed  There is no evidence led on behalf of the prosecution to support that he was also known as Tamil Selvan . Prosecution could have led some evidence, but that was not done . The  The established law is that every such circumstance, which is relied upon by the prosecution for establishing conspiracy, must be proved to have nexus with that conspiracy . We have already expressed our doubts regarding  It was suggested that the handwriting of Sivakumar (A-2) was proved on the reservation slips . In respect of Q1, however, which is a train reservation form  In Halsbury's Laws of England the definition of conspiracy is as under: 'Conspiracy consists in the agreement of two or more persons to do an unlawful act, or to do  The prosecution has not been able to prove that John Pandian actually stayed in MLA's hostel . A mere mention of the name called `John Pandian' in the records of the  The prosecution was extremely confused as to how much money was said to have been agreed to be paid for the murder of Vivekanandan . The prosecution has drawn complete blank on telephonic  Ubaiadulla, Yusuf and Abdul Kareem and John Pandian acquit . They shall be set to liberty forthwith unless required in any other case . Since Venkatram