 The Delhi Development Authority (for short, `the DDA'), at whose instance land of the respondents and others situated at Village Bahapur was acquired for Planned Development of Delhi, was  The High Court did not issue notice to the DDA apparently because it was not a party to the proceedings held by the Land Acquisition Collector and the Reference Court . The DDA has been  After 17 years of filing the appeal, Bhola Nath and another sought leave of the court to amend the memo of appeal so as to enable them to claim compensation at the rate of  Shri Amarendra Sharan argued that the High Court committed serious error by increasing market value of the land on the premise that land in the surrounding areas has already been put to commercial  In Kunhayammed v. State of Kerala (supra), a three-Judge Bench considered the questions whether summary dismissal of the special leave petition and that too without deciding any question  The definition of the expressions "local authority" and "person interested" are inclusive and not exhaustive . The difference between exhaustive and inclusive definitions has been explained in [?CITATION?  The DDA is an authority constituted under Section 3 of the 1957 Act for promoting and securing development of Delhi according to plan . It has the power to acquire, hold, manage and dispose  In Neyvely Lignite Corporation Ltd. v. Special Tahsildar, the High Court upheld the order of the Reference Court and dismissed the revision filed by the appellant .  U.P.P.'Awas Evam Evam Vikas Parishad v Gyan Devi (supra) The same issue was considered by the Constitution Bench in . U.  Section 50(2) of the L.A. Act envisages that the local authority has a right to appear and adduce evidence before the court . A local authority for whom  The local authority is, therefore, entitled to be impleaded as a party in the proceedings before the reference court . In case the amount of compensation has been enhanced by the court,  The impugned judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court as also the judgments of the Reference Court are set aside . The matters are remitted to the . Reference Court for deciding