 Ten members of Lok Sabha and one member of Rajya Sabha expelled from Parliament . Ten alleged to be members of Parliament accepting money for tabling questions or raising issues in the House . Ten  Ten members of the Lok Sabha expelled from the Parliament in 2005 . They were accused of posing as representatives of the fictitious company, through a number of middlemen, some of whom were working  The petitioners contend that there can be cessation of membership of either House of Parliament only in the manner provided in Articles 101 and 102 . The Union of India and the Attorney General assert that  The Court's task is to identify those values in the constitutional plan and to work them into life in the cases that reach the Court . The Court cannot and should not shirk this responsibility  In a democratic country governed by a written Constitution, it is the Constitution which is supreme and sovereign . The doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty as it obtains in England does not prevail in India except  A Division Bench of Gujarat High Court speaking through Chief Justice Bhagwati (as he then was) held : "The problem before us is whether the privilege can be read in Article  The Constitution itself disapproves even a reference to any titles on the basis of heredity and blood alone . Can one imagine that the word 'King' or 'Queen' mentioned in  Constitution of India differs significantly from Constitutions of other countries . Constitution-makers forged solutions and incorporated them with checks and balances . Constitution earmarked areas where further provisions could be made by  Article 101 deals with vacation of seats, and requires the Parliament to make a provision by law for the vacation by a person who is chosen as member of both Houses, of his seat in  Section 15 of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978, is Article 194 . The words "shall be those of the House and of its members and Committees immediately before  The Constitution also makes provisions for cessation of tenure of office or removal of every constitutional functionary referred to in the Constitution . The word 'disqualified' means to 'make ineligible' or  An analysis of Article 101 shows that the Constitution makers provided specifically for three types of vacancies . The Constitution makers did not contemplate or provide for any cause, other than those mentioned in Article 101  The obvious effect of death did not require to be stated and therefore the non-mention of death as a ground for vacancy does not make Article 101 any less exhaustive . The Constitution does  There is no power of expulsion in the Parliament, either inherent or traceable to Article 105(3) Expulsion by the House will be possible only if Article 102 or Article 101 is