 The appellant, a septuagenarian, filed an application dated 4.2.2008 in the office of the Sub-Registrar, Bhopal, for cancellation of  The High Court held that the authorities under the Act had correctly stated that they have no jurisdiction to decide the soundness of registration of Extinguishment Deed or the sale deeds and declare  Section 21 of the Act provides for description of property and maps or plans . No non-testamentary document relating to immovable property shall be accepted for registration unless it contains a description  Before the Full Bench, the question arose whether a person can nullify the sale by executing and registering a cancellation deed and whether the Registering Officer is bound to refuse registration when a cancellation  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh had dismissed the writ petition relying on the Full Bench decision in Yanala Malleshwari (supra). The father of the appellants had purchased  A writ petition was filed seeking declaration that the cancellation deed was illegal but the said writ was dismissed holding that the appellants should approach the civil court . The Court referred to Rule 26(  Rule 26(k)(i) relating to Andhra Pradesh under Section 69 of the Act may come under any regulatory measure . Rule provides the manner of verification of execution is a condition for  The writ court has rightly declined to exercise the jurisdiction of the writ court . I am of the view that general observations in Thota Ganga Laxmi (supra) require consideration  The appellant and his sister were the legal heirs to succeed her mother's intestate property . The sale deed of the property in dispute was executed by the Society in favour of the appellant on  The said documents have been fraudulently registered by them which is against the acquired legal rights of the appellant on the said plot of land, the same is void ab initio in law  The appellant is the legal heir of the deceased Smt. Veeravali Anand . The sale deed was cancelled by the Society by way of executing an extinguishment deed . The  A deed of cancellation will amount to rescission of contract and if the issue in question is viewed from the application of Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act, any rescission must be only  The registration of the document amounts to playing fraud on the power provided to him under law which is ultra vires the relevant statutory provisions and the Constitution of India . Every power vested in a  The cancellation of the void extinguishment deed with regard to the said plot of land and subsequent sale deed executed in favour of the respondent No.5 has not been sought for by the appellant  The prayer sought for in the present appeal is with regard to cancellation of the extinguishment deed and the subsequent sale deed executed by Society in favour of respondent No.5, who in turn  The sale deed executed in favour of the appellants mother in the year 1962 by way of the extinguishment deed could not have been registered by the Sub-Registrar as he is  Article 226 have the power to issue a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of . mandamus . The term authority used in Article 226, in the context, must receive  The court issuing a writ of certiorari acts in exercise of a supervisory and not appellate jurisdiction . An error in the decision or determination itself may also be amenable to a writ