 The original owner of plot No. 9 was originally owned by Vallabhadas Goragandhi in Borivali, Bombay . The original plot was renumbered as Final plot No  The legal heirs of Hiralal challenged the above mentioned notice, the award of the Arbitrator and the decision of the Tribunal by filing Writ Petition (C) 1084 of 1978 before  The cost of the scheme is required to be met wholly or in part by a contribution to be levied by the Planning Authority on each final plot . The High Court also expressed the following view  Liberty was granted on the request of the appellant to raise certain points which they could not raise earlier before the High Court . The High Court was also directed to deal with those points in accordance  The original judgment dated 6.5.2005 has already been dismissed by this Court and the points which attained finality cannot be reopened . Learned senior counsel also submitted that SLP filed against  The principal purpose of the MRTP Act can be achieved without the aid of the Land Acquisition Act which has a very limited and restricted application . Section 126(2) lays down the procedure  State Government may appoint an officer of rank not below that of a Class I Officer and direct him to hear any such person in respect of such objections and suggestions and submit his report thereon  The power of State Government to require Planning Authority to make scheme is provided under Section 63 which is extracted hereunder . The size and shape of every reconstituted plot shall be determined  The Planning Authority or, as the case may be, the officer appointed under sub-section (2) of section 61 or Section 63 may modify such scheme as it or he thinks fit  The Arbitrator may decide all matters referred to in sub-section (3) within a period of twelve months from the date of his appointment . He may with the previous sanction of the  Section 86 deals with sanction by State Government to final scheme . Section 88 deals with effect of final scheme which reads as follows: "All lands required by the Planning Authority shall, unless it  The appellant contends that in spite of the fact that the plot stood vested in the Government or Town Planning Authority under Section 88(a) of the MRTP Act, even then the procedure  The court in Shantilal Mangaldas held as follows: There is no option under that Act to acquire the land either under the Land Acquisition Act or under the Town Planning Act .  In [?CITATION?], the Court struck down the acquisition on the ground that when the lands are acquired by the State Government for a housing scheme under the Madras Amending  The Bombay Town Planning Act provides for statutory re-adjustment of rights of the owners of the original plots of land . There is no vesting of original plots in the local authority nor  The High Court in its impugned judgment recorded "we may add that under Rule 10(2) of the D.C. Rules of 1967, additional FSI in lieu of  Section 53 does not provide that the reconstituted plot is transferred or is to be transferred from the local authority to the owner of the original plot . A part of even the whole  There is no question of resorting to further acquisition under Section 126(2) of the Act, the High Court said . The words town planning scheme used in Section 126 is in respect