 Appeal is filed against the final judgment and order dated 29.01.2008 passed by the Gauhati High Court, Agartala Bench in Criminal Appeal No. 90 of 2005 .  Anil Das (A-1), Ashim Bhattacharjee, Shailendra Das, Gautam Das, Somesh Das, Uttam Shil (A  An appellate court has full power to review, reappreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded . The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 puts no limitation,  An order of acquittal is to be interfered with only when there are "compelling and substantial reasons" for doing so . If the order is "clearly unreasonable", it is a  An accomplice is undoubtedly a competent witness under the Indian Evidence Act . Courts are naturally reluctant to act on such tainted evidence unless it is corroborated in material particulars by other independent evidence .  The law with regard to appreciation of approver's evidence is based on the effect of Sections 133 and 114, illustration (b) of the Evidence Act, namely, that an accomplice  The rule of prudence was based on interpretation of the phrase "corroborated in material particulars" in Illustration (b) to Section 114 of the [Indian Evidence Act,  The principle of tendering pardon to an accomplice is to unravel the truth in a grave offence so that guilt of the other accused persons concerned in commission of crime could be brought home .  An accomplice who has been granted pardon under Section 306 or 307 of the Code gets protection from prosecution . When he is called as a witness for the prosecution, he must comply with the  To materialize the plan, 13 persons including PW-6 had spread over in different groups in different places to eliminate Tapan Chakraborty . After meeting at 2 Santinagar  A reading of the entire evidence of PW-6 makes it clear that the reason for change of his mind for tendering pardon is acceptable and in tune with the conditions prescribed in Sections 306  Babul Dey deposed that Tapan Chakraborty, the deceased, was known to him . He admitted that he belongs to DYFI, which is the youth wing  Tapan Chakraborty was the Secretary of DYFI, because of which it was argued that due to political rivalry, he had falsely implicated the accused persons . Nitai Das  Four eye-witnesses, namely, Nehar Ranjan Deb, Bidhu Urang, Pranab Chakraborty and Satyendra Tanti (PW-  Tapan Chakraborty was killed at Santinagar Ferry Ghat at around 06:30 p.m. and according to him at the time of occurrence, he was sitting  The analysis of statement of various persons, particularly . eye-witnesses clearly strengthen the case of the . case of PW- 6, approver, in all aspects including conspiracy,  Court has to be very careful, as prima facie, a witness who makes different statements at different times, has no regard for the truth . Court should be slow to act on  The High Court reversed the decision of acquittal and convicted the accused persons relying on Section 34 IPC . The burden lies on prosecution to prove that the actual participation of more than one person  The High Court is right in applying Section 34 IPC and basing conviction of six accused persons including the two convicted appellants that is Tapan Das (A-5), Gaut  Both appeals fail and are accordingly dismissed as devoid of any merit . The High Court confirms the ultimate decision arrived at by the High Court .