 The appeal arises out of a public auction conducted by the Delhi Development Authority . The appellant made the highest bid for Plot No.2-A, Bhikaji Cama Place, District  M/s. Kailash Nath & Associates, 1006, Kanchanjanga Building, 18, Bara Khamba Road, New Delhi-110001.  The bid/ allotment of the said plot in your favour has been cancelled and earnest money amounting to Rs.78,00,000/ (Rupees Seventy Eight Lakh  The DDA sold the plot for 11.78 Crores (Rupees Eleven Crores Seventy Eight Lakhs) The Division Bench of the Delhi High Court set aside the judgment  It is difficult to say that there was a breach of any terms and conditions of the auction, as the period of three months which the DDA could have insisted upon had specifically been waived  Webb's case would directly apply to the facts here . The Central Government may not relax the Nazul Rules . It is only as a result of the operation of s. 63 of the  The question as to how extension of time may be agreed upon by the parties has been the subject-matter of some argument at the Bar in the present appeal . Section 63 of the Contract  The decision guides that where a private affair i.e. a contract is so perverted by a party that it offends the concept of a fair- play in a modern society,  The Division Bench held that the property was ultimately auctioned in the year 1994 at a price which fetched DDA a handsome return of Rupees 11.78 crores and there being  Section 74 of the Indian Contract Act deals with the measure of damages in two classes of cases (i) where the contract names a sum to be paid in case of breach and (ii  In every case of breach of contract the person aggrieved by the breach is not required to prove actual loss or damage suffered by him before he can claim a decree . But the expression "  Arbitral Tribunal failed to consider Sections 73 and 74 of the Indian Contract Act and ratio laid down in [?CITATION?], it was held . Compensation has to be reasonable and  The court is competent to award reasonable compensation in case of breach even if no actual damage is proved to have been suffered in consequence of the breach of a contract . In some contracts, it  The DDA has received a much higher amount on re-auction of the same plot of land . Mr Sharan submitted that in case we were against him, the earnest money that