 A. Shanmugam is the appellant and Ariya Kshatriya Raja Kulavamsa Madalaya Nandhavana Paripalana Sangam . The  The trial court on the basis of the pleadings has framed the following issues:- Whether the plaintiff has the right to possession and enjoyment of the suit property? Whether the plaintiffs father in the  Madras High Court held that a person in wrongful possession is not entitled to be protected against lawful owner by an order of injunction . The First Appellate Court reversed the judgment of the  Possession cannot be considered in vacuum . Possession of a person, other than the owner, is permissive on behalf of the title- holder .  Judges are expected to carefully examine the pleadings and documents before framing of issues in a given case . Truth is the basis of the Court's duty to find out the truth, says the  A judge in the Indian System has to be regarded as failing to exercise his jurisdiction and thereby discharging his judicial duty, if in the guise of remaining neutral, he opts to remain  Truth being the cherished ideal and ethos of India, pursuit of truth should be the guiding star of the Criminal Justice System . Truth is the very soul of justice. Therefore truth should become the  Courts must give greater emphasis on the veracity of pleadings and documents in order to ascertain the truth . Judges must understand that judging is not merely a job but a way of life .  In order to grant or refuse injunction, the judicial officer or the judge must carefully examine the entire pleadings and documents with utmost care and seriousness . The safe and better course is to give  50 operators including the appellants/ private operators have been running their stage carriages by blatant abuse of the process of the court by delaying the hearing as directed in Jeevan Nath Bah  One of the aims of every judicial system has to be to discourage unjust enrichment using Courts as a tool . Costs imposed by the Courts must in all cases should be the real costs equal to  The word restitution in its etymological sense means restoring to a party on the modification, variation or reversal of a decree or order, what has been lost to him in execution of  The courts constant endeavour must be to ensure that everyone gets just and fair treatment . In appropriate cases realistic costs and compensation be ordered in order to discourage dishonest litigation . The object and true meaning  The court must ensure that there is no incentive for wrong doer in the temple of justice . The protection of the Court can be granted or extended to the person who has valid subsisting