 An enquiry was held in regard to the charge of misconduct against the State Bank of India Branch Manager . The Disciplinary Authority had recommended imposition of the penalty of reduction of pay of the  The trial court set aside the order of removal dated 30.6.1995 . The First Appellate Court upheld the decree of the Trial Court, but in addition held that the respondent  Second appeals would lie in cases which involve substantial questions of law . The word 'substantial' does not refer to the stakes involved in the case, but refers to impact of the question  There cannot, therefore, be a strait-jacket definition as to when a substantial question of law arises in a case . The High Court should entertain the second appeal only if it  There is a clear distinction between public employment governed by statutory rules and private employment governed purely by contract . Even where the employer is a statutory body, where the relationship is purely governed by contract  In the absence of appropriate pleading on a particular issue, there can be no adjudication of such issue . Adjudication of a dispute by a civil court is significantly different from the exercise  The English decision Re : VGM Holdings Ltd, reported in 1941 (3) ER page 417, was held that once a Judge has made an order which has been passed and entered,  The order dated 18.1.1995 made on an office note, was neither pronounced, nor published/notified nor communicated . It cannot be said that the Appointing Authority became  Shri S. N. Goyal, Office JMGS I, has agreed with the same . Disciplinary Authority is inclined to take a lenient view considering length of service put in  The issue on which the Vigilance Department made its comment was on the limited ground whether any leniency should be shown in imposing punishment . No additional facts or material were placed by the App  The Court upheld the view of the High Court that the decision of the Disciplinary Authority was vitiated on account of the same being influenced by some extraneous material in the form of