 Appeals arise out of judgements and orders passed by Punjab and Haryana High Court and Kerala High Court . The State of Punjab imposed tax on import of potable liquor manufactured in other  The State cannot justify such a levy on the spacious ground of having exclusive privilege of dealing in potable liquor . It was submitted that power to impose countervailing duty being statutorily  The Punjab Excise Fiscal (Second Amendment) Orders, 1996, were issued by the State of Punjab and that of Kerala . They come into force on and with effect from the first day  Excise duty, luxury tax and export fee paid to Kerala Government before export . The verification certificate is produced before the Excise officers in charge of the Distilleries/ Foreign Liquor  An excise duty or a countervailing duty as the case may be at such rate or rates as the State Government shall direct, may be imposed either generally or for any specified local area  The State Government may make rules regulating the import, export, transport or possession of any intoxicant or Excise bottle . The Financial Commissioner may by notification make rules on the scale of  Duty of excise on liquors (Indian made) Rs. 200 per proof litre or an amount equal to 200 per cent of the value of the liquor . Luxury tax: When  The High Court of Punjab and Haryana rejected the High Court's impugned judgment . High Court said the impost was by way of a price for parting with the exclusive privilege  The functions of the State to impose a fee or tax in terms of the provisions of the statute is a legislative function . Indisputably, the State while imposing import duty has exercised  Under the Punjab Act fees for grant of licences, permits and passes are required to be paid on the terms as the Financial Commissioner may direct . Having regard to Article 265 of the Constitution a  Dealing in liquor or for that matter in lottery, tobacco is not prohibited under the Constitution . Parliament or the State Legislature has been conferred power to regulate the said trade like any other trade  The State under its regulatory power has the power to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants . The contention was that trade or business in liquor is so inherently pern  The fundamental right to trade in intoxicant liquor was recognized in Government of Travancore and Cochin imposed 20% commission for sanction of extra quota of Foreign Liquor to wholesale  In Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) at pages 608-609, a Constitution Bench referred to some of the decisions as referred to hereinbefore and summed up its  The courts while interpreting a statute would not take recourse to such interpretation whereby a person can be said to have committed a crime although the same is not a crime in terms of the statutory enactment  The right of the State to carry on trade or business under Article 298 of the Constitution would be subject to the same constitutional limitations in the matter of carrying on trade and business in liquor as  The major part of the concept was borrowed from Sections 92 and 99 of the Australian Constitution as also Section 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 . The term "commerce" is wider  Article 301 of the Constitution states that there shall be no discrimination between one State and the other but restrictions inhere in such liberty as would appear from clause 2 of Article 303 of Constitution .  In Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. (supra), the validity of the tax impugned therein was upheld only on the ground that it was compensatory in  The freedom declared under Article 301 may be defined as a right to free movement of persons or things, tangible or intangible, commercial or non-commercial, unobstructed by barriers inter-State  The Hawaii liquor tax is a 20% excise tax imposed on sales of liquor at wholesale . The Supreme Court of Hawaii upheld the tax against challenges based upon the Equal Protection Clause, the Import  Hawaii Supreme Court described the legislature's motivation in enacting the exemptions as follows: "The legislature's reason for exempting 'ti root okolehao' from the 'alcohol tax'  State laws that constitute mere economic protectionism are therefore not entitled to the same deference as laws enacted to combat the perceived evils of an unrestricted traffic in liquor .  Prohibition is against discriminatory taxation by the States . We find it difficult to appreciate how can the concept of classification be read into clause (a) of Article 304 to undo the precise object and  An Act may contravene s.92 though it operates in restriction both of intra- State and of inter-State trade . In India Part XIII of the Constitution relates both to inter  The State of Punjab is ready to undertake before this Court to refund the amount that would be realized by way of import duty together with interest thereon @ 15% per annum to the