 Komal Kapoor committed suicide at Tagore Garden Extension, Delhi . Her son Amit Kapoor said he knew Ramesh Chander Sibbal for the last 10 years . The  Ramesh Sibbal, his wife Suman and his son Gaurav are committing suicide . They say they were living in a house where they were beaten up by a man  Komal Komal says she has received threats from Gunda elements that they would harm her family . Komal's husband died due to cancer and if I am dishonest to anyone, my  The High Court quashed the charge framed under Section 306 IPC, while permitting the trial to continue the trial in relation to the offence under Section 448 IPC . Komal Kapoor  As long as there is absence of evidence to show that the abettor had intended to aid or encourage the commission of the principal offence, the accused cannot be charged with the offence of  The courts have stated the principle that if the FIR does not disclose the commission of a cognizable offence, the Court would be justified in quashing the investigation on the basis of the information  At the initial stage of framing of a charge, the court is concerned not with proof but with a strong suspicion that the accused has committed an offence which, if put to trial, could  The jurisdiction of the Court under Section 397 can be exercised so as to examine the correctness, legality or proprietary of an order passed by the trial court or the inferior court, as the  The powers possessed by the High Court under Section 482 of the Code are very wide and the very plenitude of the powers requires a great caution in its exercise .  The factual foundation and ingredients of an offence being satisfied, the Court will not either dismiss a complaint or quash such proceedings in exercise of its inherent or original jurisdiction . The power cannot be  The power is to be exercised ex debito justitiae, i.e. to do real and substantial justice for administration of which alone, the courts exist . Quashing of a  The High Court could not have appreciated or evaluated the record and documents filed with it. It was not a case where the allegations were so predominately of a civil nature that it would have  The word instigate literally means to provoke, incite, urge on or bring about by persuasion to do any thing . The Court held that the accused had made a wrong statement that he had  The order of the High Court is set aside . Charge against the accused under Section 306 read with Section 107 and Section 448 IPC are found to be in order . The trial Court shall