 Shri Shanker Raju was appointed as a Judicial Member of the Central Administrative Tribunal (in short, "the Tribunal") on 10.12.2000 . After completion of his five  High Court to all the Members of the Central Administrative Tribunal irrespective of their appointment under the Un-amended or amended Rules . Declare that the newly inserted Section 10A of the Administrative  Term of office of chairman at sixty eight years and of a Member of the Tribunal at 10 years, cannot be regarded as unconstitutional because concept of security of tenure does not apply to such appointments  The doctrine of stare decisis is a valuable principle of precedent which cannot be departed from unless there are extraordinary or special reasons to do so . It is not a ritual of convenience but  The doctrine of binding precedent has the merit of promoting certainty and consistency in judicial decisions . The pronouncement of law by a larger Bench of the this Court is binding on a Division Bench of  Shri Venkataramani, learned senior counsel, in his role as Amicus Curiae, argued that Section 10A of the Amended Act did not come up for consideration  Section 8 of the Act provides the term of office of Chairman, Vice Chairman and other Members of the Tribunal . By virtue of this provision, they would hold the office as such for a  Section 8(2) of the Act clearly demonstrates that a member of a Tribunal can hold such office for a fixed and definite period of time . The second part of the Section gives discretion  Section 6 of the Act provides for qualification for appointment as Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other Members . Section 8 provides for "Term of Office" Section 10A is plain and unamb  This would lead to an anomalous situation where a person who would have presided over a Bench in the Tribunal for years, would suddenly become the junior Member on the same Bench . This certainly  We do not see any merit in this writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India . We place on record our deep appreciation for the assistance .