 A Bench of two judges was of the view that looking to the issues involved and the far-reaching consequences which such a decision will leave, these matters require consideration by a larger Bench .  The [Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (the 1960 Act) continues to have jurisdiction to entertain applications/ disputes submitted before them by the Co- operative Banks incorporated  Andhra Pradesh High Court struck down constitutional validity of Sections 61 and 71 of the APCS Act, 1964 . High Court held that the State Legislature was competent to enact the MCS Act  The Andhra Pradesh High Court declared Sections 61 and 71 of the APCS Act, 1964 invalid being beyond legislative competence of the State and also in clear and direct conflict with the provisions of  The final authority of every society shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules vests in the general body of members in general meeting . Chapter VII deals with Management of Soc  APCS Act, 1964 was enacted with Statement of Objects and Reasons to consolidate and amend the law relating to Co-operative Societies in the State of Andhra Pradesh .  Section 63 empowers the financing bank to proceed against members of a society for recovery of moneys due to it from such society . Chapter X deals with Execution of Decisions, Dec  The Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 1984 was enacted by the Parliament and Section 74 thereof deals with various disputes including recovery of debts due to the co- operative banks .  Part V of the BR Act was inserted by Act 23 of 1965 w.e.1966 . The Parliament had enacted the Securitististist and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Reconstruction  Parliament has consistently made the meaning of 'banking company' clear beyond doubt to mean 'a company engaged in banking, and not a co-operative society' Parliament added a separate definition  The RDB Act was taken by the Central Government after considering the increasing workload of the Civil Courts and delay in disposal of the bank suits . The existing procedure for recovery of debts due to  Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant in Civil Appeal Nos.432 to 434 of 2004, vehemently contended that the High Court of Bombay completely  Co-operative movement by its very nature, is a form of voluntary association where individuals unite for mutual benefit in the production and distribution of wealth upon principles of equity, reason and common good  The modifications given in clause (a) of Section 56 are apparently for suitably applying the substantive provisions of the Act to co-operative banks . Mr. T. R. Andhy  Learned senior counsel contended that in the matter of grant of loan etc., co-operative bank has only one restraint that is to obtain approval from Reserve Bank of India which is manifest from Section  The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has failed to appreciate the distinction between the definition of "banking company" under Section 5(c) of the BR Act and Section 2(c  Co-operative banks carrying on banking business as defined in Section 5(b) of the BR Act and the recovery of claims by the banks against the borrowers and debtors is a matter  RDB Act was passed in 1993 when Parliament had before it the provisions of the BR Act as amended by Act No.23 of 1965 by addition of some more clauses in Section 56 of  Privy Council upheld the vires of the whole of the Act because it dealt in pith and substance, with money- lending .  The language of the Sections in these enactments defining 'banking company' is plain, clear and explicit . It does not admit any doubtful interpretation as the intention of the legislature is clear  The court should not approach the enactment with a view to pick holes or to search for defects of drafting, much less inexactitude of language employed . These principles have given rise to rule  There is no provision whatsoever relating to proceedings for recovery by any bank of its dues . Recovery was initially governed by the Code of Civil Procedure by way of civil suits and after the RDB  The question before this Court was whether a person defined as "officer" under Section 2(20) of the MCS Act, 1960 was a "public servant" within the meaning  The Court was only considering Entry 45 List I vis-a-vis Entry IIA List III 'administration of justice' The field of co-operative societies cannot be said to have