 One of the appeals is by Zahira who claims to be an eye-witness to macabre killings allegedly as a result of communal frenzy . Zahira made statements and filed affidavits  Four out of seven injured witnesses resiled from statements made during investigation . Zahira Sheikh - the Star witness had specifically stated on affidavit about the threat given to her and the reason for her  An injured eye-witness Tufel Habibulla Sheikh was not examined, though he had disclosed the names of four accused i.e. A-5, A-6  The High Court has gone to the extent of saying that the appellant-Zahira has been used by some persons with oblique motives . The witnesses who filed affidavits have been termed  Zahira's prayer was for fresh investigation, the State's appeal in essence was for new trial . The High Court should not have thrown out the application as well as the materials sought to  An appeal cannot be decided on the basis of materials existing on record, the Court has to analyse the evidence already existing . The necessity and need for additional evidence has to be determined in the  The principle of a fair trial now informs and energises many areas of the law . It is reflected in numerous rules and practices . Courts have an over-riding duty to maintain public  The failure to hear material witnesses is certainly denial of fair trial . Fair trial means a trial in which bias or prejudice for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause which is  Petitioner's case of great insecurity or molestation to the point of threat to life is, so far as the record bears out, difficult to accept . The mere word of an interested  The State has a definite role to play in protecting the witnesses, to start with at least in sensitive cases involving those in power, who has political patronage and could wield muscle and money power  The power of the Court under Section 165 of the Evidence Act is in a way complementary to its power under Section 311 of the Code . The prosecutor who does not act fairly and acts more  The primary object of Section 391 is the prevention of guilty man's escape through some careless or ignorant proceedings before a Court or vindication of an innocent person wrongfully accused .  An oversight in the management of the prosecution cannot be treated as irreparable lacuna . The advantage of it should normally go to the accused in the trial of the case, but an oversight  The Director of Prosecution plays a vital role in the prosecution system . He even administers "Witness Protection Programmes" Australia, Canada and USA have enacted legislation in this regard .  The question of admission of evidence initially or as additional evidence under Section 391 is distinct from the efficacy, reliability and its acceptability for consideration of claims in the appeal on merits . The  Prosecution evidence is required to be examined de hors such omissions to find out whether the said evidence is reliable or not. The contaminated conduct of officials should not stand on the way of  The High Court has come to a definite conclusion that the investigation carried out by the police was dishonest and faulty . That was and should have been per se sufficient justification to direct a re-  There was no material before the High Court for coming to a finding that the persons did not know Gujarati since there may be a person who could converse fluently in a language though  An unusual mode in contrast to the lapse committed by non-examining victims and injured witnesses adopted by the investigating agency and the prosecutor . They have expectedly given a clean chit  The High Court after hearing the appeal directed its dismissal on 26.12.2003 . The case was dismissed because the High Court was closing for winter holidays . All expenses necessary for the trial  The High Court appears to have failed to maintain the required judicial balance and sobriety in making unwarranted references to personalities and their legitimate moves before competent courts - the highest court of the  If accused persons were not on bail at the time of conclusion of the trial, they shall go back to custody . If on the other hand they were on bail that order shall continue unless