 The first petitioner a religious denomination, runs a college to provide higher education to Christian and other students . The petitioner's college was accorded affiliation under s. 33 of the Gujarat University Act  Section 41(1) of the Act states that all colleges within the University area which are admitted to the privilege of the University under s. 5(3) shall be constituent colleges of  Sections 40 and 41 would be violative of the right under Article 30(1) and, therefore, do not apply to minority institutions unless they opt for affiliation . No legitimate objection could  S. 40 of the Act cannot have any compulsory application to minority institutions because it will take away their fundamental right to administer the educational institutions of their choice . The real implication of s.  The object of articles 25 to 30 was to preserve the rights of religious and linguistic minorities, to place them on a secure pedestal and withdraw them from the vicissitudes of political controversy  Article 30(1) was intended to have a real significance and it is not permissible to construe it in such a manner as would rob it of that significance . The law which inter  Section 52A is widely worded and as it stands it would cover within its ambit every dispute connected with the conditions, of service, of a member of the staff of an educational  If a linguistic minority can establish only an educational institution to conserve its language then the expression "of their choice" in art. 30(1) is practically robbed of it meaning . The  The constitution makers wanted to be absolute can be subjected to regulations which need only satisfy the nebulous and elastic test of State necessity . The very purpose of incorporating this right in Part III of  The right of the governing body of the College constituted by the religious minority to administer the institution cannot be taken away . The right to choose a principal and to have the teaching conducted by the  Section 5(i) has the effect of compelling a college to abandon its fundamental rights guaranteed by article 30(1) of the (Constitution as a price for affiliation by the Gujarat  It is true that section 38B of the Act imposes certain conditions which, the college will have, no difficulty in satisfying . In any case until its application for autonomous status is rejected,  The fight to establish an educational institution impliedly grants two kinds of choices . The minorities have a right to establish or not to establish any particular type of educational institution . This is the negative  The extent of regulatory power of the State would vary according to various types of educational institutions established by religious and linguistic minorities . No minority educational institution can be singled out for treatment different from one  No legitimate objection can be taken to sub-s.41; The merecircumstance that an affiliated college is made a constituent college of the university would not necessarily offend art.  Article 29 confers fundamental right to "any section of the citizens" which would include the majority section . Article 30(1) confers the right only on minorities . While article 29  The right to administer means the right to effectively manage and conduct the affairs of the institution . The minority colleges will lose their minority character completely . It is the creation of power that is subject  The object of administration of a minority educational institution is two fold. (1) the conservation of culture including religion, language and so grain (ii) 'to ensure that their children receive  The question for consideration is whether the minorities based on religion or language have the right to establish and administer educational institutions for imparting general secular education within the meaning of Article 30 of the Constitution  The scope of Article 30 rests on linguistic or religious minorities and no other section of citizens of India has such a right . The object of conferring the right on minorities under Article 30 is  Religious and linguistic minorities who have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, have a fundamental right to affiliation . The Court in State of Kerala v. Very Rev. Mother  The right to administer is said to consist of four principal matters: the right to choose its managing- or governing body . The founders of the minority institution have faith and confidence in their own  Sections 48 and 49 of the Kerala University Act,of 1969 to be infraction of Article.30\. Those sections were found by this Court to have the effect of displacing the administration  The word "conduct" clearly indicates that the university is a teaching university . Under section 40 of the Act the university takes over teaching of under-graduate classes . Minority institutions become part and  The right, to administer is subject to permissible regulatory measures . Permissible regulatory measures are those which do not restrict the right of administration but facilitate it and ensure better and more effective exercise of  The provision in section 51A, clause (b) of the Act cannot be said to be a permissive regulatory measure inasmuch as it confer- arbitrary power on the Vice-  The right of a linguistic or religious minority to administer educational institutions of their choice has been held by this Court to be subject to regulatory measures which the State might impose for furthering the excellence  Some of the provisions analogous to cls. 11, 12 (1), (2), (3) and (5) have been held invalid by this Court when they were challenged as  Kerala University Act Section 53- Appointment of teachers in private colleges . No teacher of private college shall be dismissed, removed, or reduced in Guru Nanak university Statutes Statute 17  A College applying for admission to the privileges of the University shall send a letter of application to the Registrar and shall satisfy the Senate . That the College shall have a regularly constituted governing body consisting  Equality of treatment of minority and majority or equality before law precludes discrimination . Equality between members of the majority and of the minority must be effective, genuine equality . The right under Art.  Kerala Education Bill Case(1) Rev.Sidhajbhai Sabhai & others v. State of Bombay and Another(2) and D.A.V. College  A writ petition was filed by the Ahmedabad St. Xavier's College Society and another under article 32 of the Constitution . The respondents are the State of Gujarat and the Gujarat University .  All post-graduate instruction, teaching and training shall be conducted by the University or by such affiliated colleges or institutions . The period of seven years from the commencement of the principal Act had expired  The Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 1972 (Act No. 6 of 1973) was thereafter passed by the Gujarat legislature . The amending Act came into force on March 12,  The petitioners have also, questioned the competence of the Gujarat legislature to pass the amending Act . The St. Xavier's College Ahmedabad is an educational institution established by a minority .  The Supreme Court ruled that the University might pass the resolutions in question on March 27, 28 and 29, 1973 but should not implement the same . The All India University Teachers Association was also  Article 28 forbids imparting religious instruction in any educational institution wholly maintained out of State funds . Article 29 forbids the denial of admission to any institution on grounds only of religion, race, caste  Article 30 prevents the State from making discrimination in the matter of grant of aid to any educational institution on the that the institution is under the management of a minority whether based on religion or language  The Constitution- makers were conscious of the deep attachment the vast masses of our country had towards religion, the sway it had on their minds and the significant role it played in their lives .  Primary education is compulsory for all Albanian nationals and will be given free of charge . Private schools of all categories at present in operation will be closed . Petition to the Council of the League  The Kerala Education Bill had been passed by the Kerala Legislative Assembly and had been reserved by the Governor for consideration of the President . Four questions were referred to the Court, out of which we  Venkatarama Aiyar J. in his minority opinion held that article 30(1) of the Constitution did not in terms confer a right on the minority institutions to State,  The case related to a school founded in 1954 at Bhagalpur . The school was being managed by the National. Christian Council of India . Two persons were elected as the President and  The Kerala University Act, 1969, was passed to reorganise the University of Kerala with a view to establish a teaching, residential and affiliating University for the southern districts of the State of  Punjabi University exercised its power and notified the date for the purpose of the, section . The effect of the notification was that the petitioners were deemed to be associated with and admitted  The broad approach has been to see that nothing is done to impair the rights of the minorities in the matter of their educational institutions . Clause 18 was held not to suffer from-the same  The right of the State to regulate education, educational standards and allied matters cannot be denied . Minorities are as much part of the nation as the majority, and anything that impinges upon  Article 30(1) belongs to that category . If a request is made for affiliation or recognition of an educational institution, it is implicit in the request that the educational institution would abide by  Article 29(1) confers a right on any section of citizens having a distinct language, script or culture of its own to conserve the same . The right conferred by article 29(  The two articles create two separate rights, although it is possible that they may meet in a given case' It has been argued on behalf of the respondents that there is no fundamental right to  A law would be void even if it merely abridge's a fundamental right guaranteed by Part III and does not wholly take away that right . This argument is untenable and runs counter to  A law which interferes with a minority's choice of qualified teachers or its disciplinary control over teachers and other members of the staff of the institution is void as being violative of article  Section 52A of the Act relates to the reference of disputes between a governing body and any member of the teaching, other academic and non-teaching staff of an affiliated college or recognized  Re Kerala Education Bill (supra) made it obligatory for all aided schools to select teachers from a panel of candidates selected for each district by the Public Service Commission . Das CJ. Das  A very large number of colleges, including minority. colleges, have been established and are in existence for the purpose of imparting under-graduate education . The impugned provisions are calculated  Article 30(1) reads:- "All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice" Article 29(1  The question was examined again by this Court in Rt. Rev. Bishop S. K. Patro and Others v. State of Bihar and Others . Article 29(1) conf  Article 29 does not deal with education as such, article 30 deals only with the establishment and administration of- educational institutions . When a linguistic minority establishes an educational institution to conserve its language,  Chief Justice Das led this Court in holding that without recognition, the educational institutions established or to be established by the minority communities cannot fulfil the real objects of their choice . He said that the  Article 28(3) implies that a religious minority administering an educational institution imparting general secular education has the liberty to provide for religious education in the institution . The parents have the right to  Education is a principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values, in preparing him for later professional training and in helping him to adjust normally to his environment . The Constitution has provided this right  There is no right, fundamental or otherwise, to recognition or affiliation the government may withhold recognition . Government may withhold or revoke it even though the reason for doing so may be the minority's  U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the right to absolutely exclude all right to use, necessarily includes the authority to determine under what circumstances such use may be availed of, as the  The Supreme Court of the United States held void a statute requiring an agreement not to remove suits to the federal courts as a condition ,precedent to, admission . In the case of  The courts have borrowed phrases and reasoning from the cases dealing with state control of corporations and have transplanted them to contemporary decisions involving numerous and diversified subjects . The most significant characteristic of the  The doctrine of "Unconstitutional condition" has been applied by the United States Supreme Court to forbid a state, to discontinue unemployment benefits to a Seventh Day Adventist refusing Saturday employment on  No right, however absolute, can be free from regulation, says barrister . State has two legitimate interests which may justify regulation of religious minorities' rights .  The question is about its secondary impact upon the admitted area of administration of educational institutions . We find it impossible to subscribe to the proposition that State necessity is the criterion for deciding whether a regulation  The heart of the matter is that no educational institution established by a religious or linguistic minority can claim total immunity from regulations by the legislature or the university if it wants affiliation or recognition . The  The Court said in answer to the contention of Mr. Mohan Kumaramangalam that the provisions in the Kerala University Act which were struck down were conceived in the interest of general education  Sections 48 and 49 of the Kerala University Act, 1969 dealt with ,the governing body for private colleges not under corporate management and the managing council for . private colleges under corporate . management .  The fundamental right of a minority to administer educational institutions of its choice comprises within it the elementary right to conduct teaching training and instruction in courses of studies in the institutions so established by teachers appointed  The management cannot terminate the services of a teacher on the basis of the contract of employment . No guidelines are provided by the legislature to the Vice-Chancellor for the exercise of his power  Article 29 of the Constitution does not, in any way, impose a limit on the kind or character of education which a minority may choose to impart through its Institution to the children of its  Ahmedabad St. Xavier's College Society is an affiliated college of the Gujarat University . The college is not permitted to affiliate with any other University without the sanction of the Govt.  Provisions of Sec. 40 and Sec. 41 of the Act are all parts of the same compulsive scheme or mechanism which is struck by Art. 30(1) of the Constitution  The only Sections which could stand in the way of its becoming an autonomous institution could be sections 5, 40 and 41 of the Act . It seems unnecessary in the case before us, to  The majority view in Re. Kerala Education Bill, 1957, was overturned by the Gujarat University . The law would not take away or abridge the fundamental rights even though it regulates their exercise  The Kerala Education Bill, 1957 (supra), this Court rejected the argument that minority institutions have an absolute right to be free from all control in managing their institutions .  There is little room for differences of opinion when it is asserted that the spirit which the State is bound to foster is that of pursuit and worship of the ideals set out in the pream  The right of St. Xavier's College at Ranchi to impart general education, not circumscribed by the requirements of Art. 29(1) of the Constitution, was recognised in view  The right of the State to regulate education, educational standards and allied matters cannot be denied . The right to manage, having been conferred in (1)[1971] 1 S.C.  The attacks on sections 4 & 5 of the Guru Nanak University Act failed but clauses 2(1) (a) and 17 were struck down for conflict with the rights guaranteed by Art  It appears very likely that the college will get the benefit of section 38B of the Act, and, therefore, will escape from the consequences of affiliation found in the impugned sections  Art. 30(1) of the Constitution is a natural result of the feeling of insecurity entertained by the minorities which had to be dispelled by a guarantee which could not be reduced to  The Court heard that sections 5, 40 and 41 of the Act, directly and unreasonably impinge upon the rights of the petitioning minority managed college, protected by Art. 30  Art. 30(1) safeguards a group- right like Art. 26, is radically different from that of Arts. 26 as it is confined only to the minority community . Article 30  The right of affiliation is neither expressly nor impliedly granted by Art. 30(1) It is not a fundamental right, but it is a statutory concept and may be obtained on the  University affiliation cannot be denied to a minority institution on the sole ground that it is managed by a minority whether based on religion or language . Such a denial would be violative of Arts.  Like Art. 30(1), the I Amendment of the U.S. Constitution is also expressed in absolute terms : "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or  Part III of the Constitution confers certain rights on individuals, on groups and on certain minority groups . Constitution makers did not intend to confer absolute rights on a religious or linguistic minority to establish  The rule of construction is well settled that when there are in an enactment two provisions which cannot be reconciled with each other, they should be so interpreted that, if possible, effect could  Constitution is a general contrivance for the good government and happiness of all the people of our developing Republic . The students do not belong only to the minorities; they belong also to the  No minority educational institution can be singled out for treatment different from one meted out to the majority educational institution . A regulation meting out such a discriminatory treatment will be obnoxious to Art.  The majority opinion in Re : Kerala Education Bill (supra) supports the construction which I am seeking to put on Art. autoimmune30(1), Das J.J. said .  The impugned order went much beyond what was necessary in the circumstances of the case . The right under Art. 30(1) forms part of a complex and inter-dependent group  Article 4 of the Declaration relating to the position of minorities in Albania provided that " all Albanian nationals shall be equal before the law and shall enjoy the same civil and political rights without distinction  The definition of the expression 'constituent college' by itself is innocuous . The concept of a constituent college is fluid . The degree of external control exercised over the administration of a minority  Sub-section (2) provides that the services of no member of the teaching and non-teaching staff shall be terminated unless he had been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against  The impugned provision is identical to s.33, Industrial Disputes Act which this Court has held to be valid . The power of approval is confined to checking the abuse of the