 Prosecution of all directors of company, the managing agents and the manager of company-Legality- Mines Act Of 1923 repealed and reenacted Regulations made thereunder, if continue in  52 persons lost their lives and one escaped with injuries . Criminal proceedings were also instituted against 14 persons including the manager and the agent of the colliery, all the directors of the company which  Two directors of the colliery company (Lals Karam Chand Thaper and H. P. Poddar) filed applications before the High Court of Patna for the issue of  The High Court is right in holding that the managing agents of the colliery company are neither the "owner" of the coal mines nor the "manager" nor "agent" thereof .  The High Court quashed the criminal proceedings against the directors of the managing agent company . Appeals Nos. 100 and 101 are accordingly dismissed .  Section 31(4) of the 1923 Act says, these regulations shall have effect as if enacted in that Act . The consequence of this provision is that the regulations became part of the Act  When an Act is repealed, but reenacted, it is almost inevitable that there will be some time lag between the re- enacted statute coming into force and regulations being framed under the  The House of Lords held that the rules should be treated "as if they were in the Act" and so stood (1) [1894] A-C- 347.22  The Coal Mines Regulations, 1926, continued to be in force at the relevant date and have to be deemed to be regulations; made under the [Mines Act, 1952]. Mr Path  Vindhya Pradesh Ordinance 48 of 1949 though enacted on September 11, 1947, i.e., after the alleged offenses were committed, was in terms made retrospective by a deeming  The phrase "any one of the directors" means "one only it matters not which one" The High Court's order directing the Inspector of Mines to select a director for the prosecution cannot  Court of Appeal held that a notice to remove "any of the present directors" would justify a resolution for removing all who are directors at the present time . "Any", Cotton, L  Appeals Nos. 98 and 99 set aside the orders of the High Court in Writ Petitions Nos. 475 and 476 of 1956 . The High Court says the words "any one of