 1971 AIR. 1132; 1971 SCR 76; 1971 (1) SCC 626 (19 March 1971) SIKRI, S.M. (CJ) (  The pamphlet in the present case, read as a whole, constituted gross contempt of this Court . The first respondent admitted that he assisted in drafting an impeachment motion against the senior Judge . The  It is not the law, even in England, that only the Attorney-General should move in contempt matters . The petitioners had to take steps only after the Attorney General did not move  Appeal came up for hearing before this Court on various occasions and was ultimately heard by a Bench consisting of Shah, J. and Hegde, J., on October 15, 1969 and  "It is not possible for a judge to 6-1 S.C.India/71 82 take a few sentences here and there from a statement and treat them as admission and ignore  Shri S. N. Prasad,petitioner No. 3, has filed an affidavit with the petition . Shri B. P. Singh, Advocate, Supreme Court  0. P. Gupta is deliberately concealing himself and is avoiding service of the notice, the Court on December 9, 1970, directed issue of non-bailable warrant for the arrest  O. P. Gupta appeared before the Court on January 25, 1971, and this Court ordered that the "warrant which was ordered to be issued against respondent No. 1 will  In the counter-affidavit he maintained that because of the many laches, illegalities and infirmities the petition should be dismissed . In para 32 he stated that "I  In para 9.3 he contended that the word" "pamphlet" for the printing Impeachment Motion was highly condemnable . He stated that he never offered the book for  The first respondent has urged that the existing law relating to contempt of court by writings in respect of proceedings which have finished is repugnant to Art. 19(1)(a), read  In Perspective Publications Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra (2) Grover, J., speaking on behalf of the Court, reviewed the entire case law and stated the result of the discussion  In the American Constitution there is no provision like Art. 19(2) of our Constitution . The relevant part of the First Amendment to the U.S. Con- stitution is  The question whether the existing law of contempt is un-reasonable within Art. 19(2) of the Constitution has been the subject of decisions in some of the High Courts . They have  Impeachment Motion drafted with 99 a view to bring facts to the facts of the facts . First respondent referred to Art. 73, Art. 246, List I entry 77, and  In Moti Lal Ghosh In re (1) a newspaper published articles scandalizing the Hi Court and the Chief Justice in his administration thereof . It was held that the articles constituted contempt  The Full Bench disallowed the advocate's application to examine witnesses in defence . In Coats v. Chadwick, (2) and Tusher Kanti Ghosh, Editor, In  Article 105(2) reads as follows: "No member of Parliament shall be liable to any proceedings in any court in respect of anything said or any vote given by him in Parliament"  The petition for contempt was filed by Mr. Justice Hegde in 1971 . The first respondent contended that the affidavit of Mr. 'S. N. Prasad was defective because  The first respondent admits that he approached members of Parliament to file a motion of Impeachment against Mr. Justice Shah . Calling this a "campaign" is only to describe in a word  An allegation of contempt of court is a serious one and is considered by courts with a certain amount of strictness . A person against whom such an allegation is made is entitled to be told  Petitioners are entitled to bring to our notice any contempt of this Court, including the President of the Supreme Court Bar Association . Petitioners have no locus standi, this Court can  The cases referred to in para 25 and in the course of the arguments are quite distinguishable and are not applicable . We have decided to be lenient and impose only a sentence of simple