 The appellant was the tenant of respondent in Quarter No. IV-H/46 Lajpat Nagar from 1-7-1967 . On 2-6-1976, the respondent  The Court dismissed the appeal by special leave of the Court . Mohammed Khalil Khan and Ors. v Mahbub Alikhan and . Ors 75 I.A 121 P.  Section 25B of the Delhi Rent Control Act was inserted in the statute by Act 18 of 5976 and was given retrospective effect from 1-12-75 . It was meant mainly to  The tenant has been afforded full opportunity to defend the application provided he can disclose good grounds for negating the case of the landlord . No litigant has a right to protract the  The defendant appellant at this time was nowhere in the picture and no notice had yet been served on him . The Rent Controller accordingly allowed the plaintiff to withdraw the two causes of action mentioned in  Order 2 Rule 2 C.P.C. runs thus:- "Every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action  The Court rejected the argument of constructive res judicata and the application of Article 14 to the provisions of the Act . We are satisfied that the second amendment application was not barred .  The Delhi Rent Control Act is a piece of social legislation and is meant mainly to protect the tenants from frivolous evictions . This appears to be the general scheme of all the Rent Control Acts  Delhi Rent Control Act replaced the ordinance which was promulgated on 1st December, 1975 . Government decided on 9th September, 1975 that a person who owns his own house in his place  Section 14A relates to a special situation where the landlord under the Government Rules is asked to shift to his own house if he has one or in a house that belongs to his spouse failing  Subsection (8) bars appeal or second appeal against an order passed by the Controller for recovery of possession of the premises . Sub-section (10) provides that procedure mentioned above shall  The agreement of lease and the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act stood superseded . Rent Control Acts provided the facilities of eviction to the landlord on certain grounds like bona fide personal necessity or