 Appeal was heard ex-parte before the court which may either dismiss it summarily or direct issue of notice to all necessary parties or make such orders as the circumstances of the case may  There is much more 'hearing' content in an absolute appellate right than in a precarious 'special leave' motion . Fullness of hearing of the proponent is not incompatible with non-  The recording of reasons is usually regarded as a necessary requirement of fair decision . The obligation to give reasons for decision when consequence of wrong Judgment is forfeiture of life or personal liberty for long periods  The rule in cases of appeals under Art. 134(1)(a) and (b) and s.2(a) is notice, records and reasons . The exception is preliminary  The power to dismiss an appeal is conferred under the Criminal Procedure Code when the court is satisfied that there are no sufficient grounds for interfering with the judgment appealed against . This decision is taken by  Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated 31-3-1978 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No.264 of 1978 . V.R. Krishna Iyer, J.  The fate of the present appeal hung in the balance at such a preliminary hearing and counsel challenged the vires of the rule itself . Parliament may make law 1093 for conferring a statutory  An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment, final order or sentence in a criminal proceeding of a High Court in the territory of India if the High Court has on appeal reversed  If Art. 136 gives a discretionary power to grant 1096 leave to appeal or to dismiss in limine, after an ex parte hearing (or after issue of notice if the court  An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment, final order or sentence in a criminal proceeding of a High Court in the territory of India if the High Court has on appeal reversed  Section 384 is significant because it has a decisive bearing on the State of appeals like the present . The appellate court is given the pervasive power to dismiss the appeal summarily, and worse,  Like Aneurin Bevan's elephant an appeal can only be described when it walks through the court room door . The layman's expectation of an appeal is very often quite different  The right of appeal under Art. 134 we must remember that it is a part of the procedure established by law for the protection of life and personal liberty . Bhagwati, J  A single right of appeal is more or less a universal requirement of the guarantee of life and liberty . The life of the law is not perfection of theory but realisation of justice in the  The Supreme Court said recording of reasons is a funadmental requisite of fairness . The inscrutable face of the sphinx and the unspeaking rejection by the judge are incompatible with  Appeal is a remedial right and if the remedy is reduced to a husk by procedural excess, the right became a casualty . Amputation of this anatomy by procedural surgery is doing  The High Tribunal retains the very considerable loophole of being empowered to reject such an appeal on the grounds that the federal question, otherwise validly raised, is "substantial" Henry J.  The horizon of human rights jurisprudence after Maneka Gandhi's case has many hues . The minimum processual price of deprivation of precious life or prolonged loss of liberty is a  The only ground upon which a suitor ought to be allowed to bring the judgment of one court for examination before the members of another is the certainty or extreme probability of finding in the latter  The Supreme Court Rules were framed in exercise of the powers conferred under Art. 145 of the Constitution and all other powers enabling the Supreme Court to make rules . Article 134 confers appellate jurisdiction  The [Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction) Act 1970] has conferred on the Supreme Court further power to entertain and hear appeals than conferred on  Code of Criminal Procedure, [1973, Act 2] of 1974, deals with appeals . Section 374 (1) provides that any person convicted on a trial held by a High Court in  The right of appeal can be curtailed by procedure as envisaged in sec. 384 Crl.Procedure Code or rule 15 Order XXI of the Supreme Court Rules . The  Article 21 states that a person convicted of an offence has no right of appeal unless such a right is conferred by the statute . The right to be heard in an appeal is regulated by statute  In Govinda Kadam v. State of Maharashtra(1) the Supreme Court held that the appellate Court has full power under section 421 of the Crl. Procedure Code to dismiss an  In the result we reject all the contentions put forward by the learned counsel and hold that the impugned Rule is within the rule making power of the Supreme Court and answer the reference