 Air India International and Indian Air Lines were governed by Regulations 46 and 47 of Air India Employees Service Regulations . Air Hostesses employed by one corporation or the other from the same class of service  Part of Regulation 47 which gives option to the Managing Director to extend the service of an AH is struck down . The provision 'or on first pregnancy whichever occurs earlier' is unconstitutional, void  In order to judge whether a separate category has been carved out of a class of service, the following circumstances have generally to be examined:- (a) the nature, the mode, the  The termination of the services of an AH under such circumstances is not only a callous and cruel act but an open insult to Indian womanhood the most sacrosanct and cherished institution  The distinction regarding the age of retirement made by Regulation between AGs and AFPs cannot be said to be discriminatory because AGs have been held to be a separate class . The fixation of  Air India is referred to as 'A.I.C.' and Indian Airlines as 'IAC' by Nergesh Meerza & Ors. as 'petitioners  The two Corporations were part of the same organisation set up by the 1953 Act . The case of the AHs was sponsored by the ACEU which made a demand for alteration of the  There were only 87 AHs out of whom quite a large number retired even before reaching the age of 30 years . Average service of an air hostess for the 5 years between 1960 and  The previous regulation regarding the retirement age of I.A.C. AH was regulation No. 12 . The General Manager, however, could retain an unmarried AH in service upto the  The age of retirement of AH could be extended upto ten years by granting yearly extensions at the option of the Managing Director . The AHs employed by one Corporation or the other form the  The State of Saurashtra v. Rawedi Raningi Jastastri, C.J. argued that the recruitment of AHs was sex-based land swayed by a  Fazal Ali J. as he then was pithily observed as follows :- "I think that a distinction should be drawn between 'discrimination without reason' and 'discrimination with  The Government order of September 27, 1957, did not integrate them into a single service, it would follow that 460 the two remained as they started as two distinct services . There was no  In State of Jammu and Kashmir v. Triloki Nath Khosa and Ors, it was clearly pointed out that equality is 462 only for equals and even in cases of  Mr Setalvad argued that both AHs and AFPs being members of the same cabin crew must be taken to belong to the same class . This argument fails to take into consideration  A serious exception has been taken against the Corporation for having acceded to the demand for phasing out a post belonging to the category of AHs and that too without taking the consent of  Air Hostess is recruited between the age of 19 and 25 on a higher pay scale than that of an Assistant Flight Purser and who retires after service of 10 years . Assistant Flight  The Mahesh Award found that AHs though members of the cabin crew are an entirely separate class governed by different set of rules, regulations and conditions of service . The two separate classes  The Corporation argued that the hours worked in London and those worked in Nottingham were not due to a difference of sex . The claim was rebuffed by Mr. Setalvad, who  Central Government declares that any act of the employer attributable to such differences shall not be declared to be in contravention of any of the provisions of the Act .  No case has been made out for raising the age of retirement and in cases where efficiency of the employee is not impaired, there is suitable provision under regulation 47 for extending his service upto  An Air Hostess, upon attaining the age of 35 years or on marriage if it takes place within four years of service or on first pregnancy, whichever occurs earlier . An AH can  The Regulation does not prohibit marriage after four years and if an AH after having fulfilled the first condition becomes pregnant, there is no reason why pregnancy should stand in the way of her continuing in  The proposed amendment seems to us to be quite reasonable but the decision of this case cannot await the amendment which may or may not be made . We would therefore, have to give our decision  U.S. Supreme Court held maternity leave rules which required a teacher to quit her job several months before the expected birth of her child violated the Fourteenth Amendment . Same view was taken  Employment decisions cannot be predicated on mere 'stereotyped' impressions about the characteristics of males or females . Myths and habitual assumptions about a woman's inability to perform certain kinds  Article 14 strikes at arbitariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment . It must be "right and just and fair" and not arbitrary, fanciful or oppressive .  No hard and fast rule can be laid down in fixing the age of retirement . Decision on the question would always depend on a proper assessment of the relevant factors and may conceivably vary from  The argument that AHs should be young and attractive and should possess pleasing manners is based on pure speculation and an artificial understanding of the qualities of the fair sex . Older women with greater experience  There cannot be any cut and dried formula for determining the age of retirement which is to be linked with various circumstances and a variety of factors . Even before the Mahesh Tribunal, the  The five Judges whose decisions we have extracted constituted the majority decision of the Bench . They held that the Government had an arbitrary power of ignoring the just claims 500 of successful candidates for recruitment to  An AH, if medically fit, is likely to continue upto the age of 45 by yearly extensions given by the Managing Director . The word 'at the option' is wide enough to  An unmarried Air Hostess may, however, be retained in the service of the Corporation upto the age of 35 years with approval of the General Manager . An unmarried AH 503 could continue  The General Manager will continue to extend the age of retirement of I.A.C. AHs upto 45 years subject to their being found medically fit . Petitions partly allowed in