 Pakistani national doing business in Karachi was convicted of cheating under s. 420 Of the Indian Penal Code . Conviction was valid in view of terms of the terms of s. 2 of the  An appeal was delivered by 330 JAGANNADHADAS J. istrate, 3rd Court, Esplanade, Bombay, in Case No. 31/W of  It is admitted, however., that no rice was in fact shipped to the complainant and the amounts have not been returned . The defence of the appellant is to the effect that the amounts were  The complainant and Carvalho were introduced to him as the agents of the appellant who were to receive the moneys in this transaction on appellant's behalf . At the same time the  On July 24, 1951, the appellant sent to Jasawalla a telegram mentioning difficulties created by the Exchange Controller in shipping the goods . The complainant sent a letter dated July 27,  A similar letter was also written by the appellant on August 14, 1951, to the complainant . Thereupon the complainant and Jasawalla approached the concerned authority at Goa, viz.,  The complainant sent a telegram to the appellant dated September 21, the appellant promised to ship the goods by S.S. Ismalia which would not be sailing in September but would  Most of the letters from the appellant relied upon bear what purport to be his signatures . There are also a few letters without signatures . Both the complainant and Jasawalla speak to the  The main contention in respect of these letters is that there is no proof that they were received by the appellant at Karachi . It is contended that evidence given by either Jasawalla or the  Fourth contention raised by the appellant's counsel relates to the validity of the conviction under s. 420/34 of the Indian Penal Code . Learned counsel argued that persons designated as accused 2,  It is doubtful whether in fact the appellant at the time of the offence could be considered a Pakistani national . The complainant asserted in his complaint, that he came to know the appellant to be  Judges held that the appellant could, therefore, be tried in Bombay in respect of the delivery of the money in Bombay . In that sense the entire offence was committed in Bombay and not the  There can be no doubt that prima facie the Indian Penal Code is intended to deal with all unlawful acts and omissions defined to be offences and committed within India . But he urges  In Hyde's International Law (Second Edition), Vol. 1, at p.798, in the following quotation from the judgment of the permanent Court of International Justice dated September 7, 1927  The word 'offence' includes every act committed outside India which, if committed in India, would be punishable under this Code . The only general sections of the Indian Penal Code which indicate  A foreigner who commits an offence within India is guilty and can be punished as such without any limitation as to his corporeal presence in India at the time . A number of early cases of  It is not necessary and indeed not permissible to construe the Indian Penal Code at the present day in accordance with the notions of criminal jurisdiction prevailing at the time when the Code was enacted .