 The Price Control Order was challenged in this Court by several dealers on the ground mainly . that it violated Articles 14\. 19(1)(f) and 19(g) of the Constitution  The Mustard Oil (Price Control Order, 1977) is constitutionally valid . The impugned Price Control Order is not an act of hostile discrimination against the traders . It does not violate  It is open to the petitioners to invoke the- 295 writ jurisdiction of this Court for determination of the question whether the provisions of the Price Control Order violate Art. 14, 19(  The Price Control Order produced the salutary and tangible result of bringing down the price of raw material, the Court said . No Court can shut its eyes to the fact that the Price  Price Control Order has been withdrawn in the wake of a falling price of mustard oil .  Price Control Order was promulgated by the Government in order to achieve the purpose set out in s. 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act . Price control can be declared  It cannot explain why, if section 3 is protected by the Ninth Schedule, the exercise of power granted by it, which manifests itself in control orders is not protected . The protection is given  The Act was put in the Ninth Schedule to prevent the invocation of Articles 14, 19 and 31 for obstructing measures to necessary as price fixation of 300 essential commodities is for promoting the objectives  It is not the function of the.Courts to . obstruct or defect such beneficial measures devised by the Government of the day . Courts cannot pass judgments on the wisdom of such . actions  Writ Petition Nos. 712, 715-739, 760- 764, 765-770, 779-780, 781-84, 838-855  Section 3A lays down: "If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for controlling the rise in prices, or preventing the hoarding, of any food  Additional sub-sections (3B) and (3C,) will also require consideration in order to arrive at the correct meaning of section 3(2) The average market rate so determined  The Control Order is assailable for violating Article 14 and 19(1) and (g) despite the fact that the Act itself was placed in 1976 in the 9th Schedule of the  Article 31B protects only Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule from the vice of invalidity for inconsistency with provisions of Part III of the Constitution but not anything done or to be done  The distinction between protection to a mere grant of powers and to their exercise, therefore, seems specious in the context of the protection . It cannot explain why, if section 3 is protected  The main question is whether Part III of the Constitution is available at all to test the validity of the impugned control order . Latafat Ali Khan & Ors. v.  Price of mustard oil was fixed at Rs. 10/kg at the time of control order of 30th September, 1977, was passed . Court: Price fixation of price above Rs.  Price of mustard oil should have been about Rs. 3/kg more, that is to say, about £. 13/kg . Students and observers of economic systems tell us that inflation  The Court heard considerable argument on principles of fair fixation of price which, it was submitted, must take into account the cost of production as well as a reasonable amount of profit to the manufacturer  The principles on which the sale prices of textiles were to be fixed, in accordance with relevant rules, were explained by this Court . In Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd.  The Government of India in its Ministry of Civil Supplies and Cooperation issued the Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order 1977, in exercise of the power conferred by section 3 of the Essential  The Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order, 1977, was challenged in this Court by several ,dealers on the ground, mainly that it violates articles 14, 19 (1 )  The Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order is not open to challenge on the ground that it violates the guarantee of the guarantee contained in article 19 (1) (f) or 19  The validity of that Notification was challenged on the ground that it offended against Article 31 of the Constitution . Subba Rao J., who was in minority, did not consider the latter point regarding  The Court held that the entitlement to protection cannot be extended to provisions which were not included in the Ninth Schedule . It was held that this principle would hold good irrespective of the fact that the  Shri Ambica Mills Ltd. (1) that the Government of India, in fixing one common price for mustard oil for the whole country, has acted like Herod who ordered the death  Shri Srinivasan's affidavit states that mustard seed is grown mainly in the rabi season, i.e., from September to October and February to March and the peak marketing  The proof of pudding, as the saying goes, is in the eating, and no court can shut its eyes to the fact that the Price Control Order produced the salutary and tangible  The Price Control Order has produced a favourable reaction on 'the, price of mustard seed' The Court has rejected petitioners' contention that the . impugned Price . Control Order is  The Court cited passage from an American decision, Secretary of Agriculture v. Central Reig Refining Company, (1) to the effect that Courts of Law cannot be converted into tribun  Price Control Order was promulgated by the Government in order to achieve the purpose out in section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act . But it seems to us incont  Price Control Order is valid and the challenge made by the petitioners his to fail, says the Court . Petitions dismissed with costs .