 The appellant alleged that when at the last hour of counting it appeared that he had all but won the election, at the instance of respondent no. 3 mob violence broke out and postal ballot  The appellant alleged that the action of the Chief Election Commissioner in ordering repoll in the whole constituency was arbitrary and violative of any vestige of fairness . The High Court dismissed the writ  Article 329 covers "electoral matters" and Art. 329(b) rests on two principles: (1) the peremptory urgency of prompt engineering of the whole election  The aim of natural justice is to secure justice, or, to put it negatively to prevent miscarriage of justice . Article 324 vests vast functions which may be powers or duties, essentially administrative  Candidates in an election stand on a different footing from the electorate in general . The interest of the electorate is too remote and recondite, too feeble and attenuate to be taken  The term "functions" includes powers as well as duties . The election commission is entitled to exercise certain powers under Art. 324(1) in the Constitution . There are no limitations  The writ petition is barred under Art 329 (b) of the Constitution and the High Court has rightly dismissed it on that ground . No election shall be called in question except by an election  The historic elections to Parliament, recently held across the country included a constituency in Punjab called 13- Ferozepore Parliamentary constituency . Poll proceeded as ordained, almost to the very last  The Chief Election Commissioner has filed a laconic affidavit leaving to the Secretary of the Commission to go into the details of the facts, although he must himself have had them within his personal  The then Chief Election Commissioner has mentioned in his affidavit that the observer Shri Menon had apprised him of "the various incidents and developments regarding the counting of votes in the constituency  If the Commission's order for re-poll fails in law, the second electoral exercise has to be dismissed as a stultifying futility . If a statutory functionary makes an order  This Court is in a better position than the High Court, being competent, under certain circumstances, to declare the law by virtue of its position under Article 141 . But, absent such authority  The Election Commission takes over the whole conduct and supervision of the mammoth enterprise in- volving a plethora of details and variety of activities . The secrecy of the ballot, the authenticity of the  The court and the law are functionally the bodyguards of the People against bumptious power, official or other . Democracy digs its grave where passions, tensions and violence upset results of peaceful  An imaginative application of principles and liberal interpretation of the constitution and the Act will avoid anomalies and assure justice . The sole remedy for an aggrieved party, if he wants to challenge any election  Every step from start to finish of the total process constitutes 'election', not merely the conclusion or culmination . The appellant's nomination for election to the Madras Legislative Assembly was rejected by the  Fazal Ali, J. R. J. ratiocinated on the ineptness of interlocutory legal bold-ups . He posed the issue and answered it thus :  The Court observed that the Representation of the People Act provides for only one remedy, that remedy being by an election petition to be presented after the election is over, and there is no  No litigative enterprise in the High Court or other court should be allowed to hold up the on-going electoral process because the parliamentary representative for the constitence should be chosen promptly .  Durga Shankar Mehta upheld the rule in Ponnuswami excluding any proceeding, including one under Art 226, during the on-going process of election, understood in  Election Triburial will be faced with this issue and the law must be laid down so that there may be no future error . Article 324 is a plenary provision vesting the whole  The rule of law postulates the pervasiveness of the spirit of law throughout the whole range of government in the sense of excluding arbitrary official action in any sphere . It is reasonable to  Natural justice is a pervasive facet of secular law where a spiritual touch enlivens legislation, administration and adjudication . It applies when people are affected by acts of Authority .  Lord Morris of Borthy-Gest in his address before the Bentham :club concluded : "We can, I think, take pride in what has been done in recent periods"  The rules of natural justice are rooted in all legal systems, not any 'new theology', and are manifested in the twin principles of nemo judes in sua caues and  To condemn unheard is wrong, it is wrong except where it is overbome by dire social or haphazardsolutions should be eschewed . The Election Commission is an institution of  Courts must be tempered by the thought while compromise on principle is unprincipled, applied administrative law in modern complexities of government must realistic, not academic . Natural justice should not destroy administrative  There must be a balance between the need for expedition and the need to give fall opportunity to the defendant to see material against him . Even in Wiseman where all that was sought to be  The most valuable right in a democratic policy is the 'little man's' little pencil- marking, assenting or dissenting, called his vote . A democratic right, if denied, inflic  Sometimes processual protections are too precious to be negotiable, or whittled down . Ram Gopal for the same reason is inapplicable, but argumentum ab inconvenient  Candidates concerned stand on a different footing from the electorate in general . They have acquired a very vital stake in polling going on properly to a prompt conclusion . The 312 candidates are the spear  The Election Commission does not ascertain whether a prima facie case exists or an ex parte order, subject to modification by him is to be made . The Indian parallel would be an  The courts may be able in suitable cases (perhaps always) to imply an obligation to act with fairness . Fairness does not necessarily require a plurality of bearings or representations and counter-represent  We consider that in the vital area of elections where the people's faith in the democratic process is hypersensitive . Fair hearing is thus a postulate of decision-making cancelling a poll  Doolay's the Supreme Court follows the iliction returns', expressed the wit of cynicism, not the demand of principle . A Court which yields to the popular will thereby licensee itself to  Sri P. P. Rao asks: If the court holds that the cancellation by the Commissioner of the whole poll is illegal what relief can it give me since a fresh election based on that  Sri Sorabjee and Sri Phadke agree to this proposition and Sri Rao, in the light of the election petition filed and is pending, cannot but assent to it . Sri  The Court may, if necessary, after setting aside the election of R. 3 (if there are good grounds therefore keep the case pending, issue directions for getting available votes, order recount  The writ petition is dismissible but every relief (given factual proof) now prayed for in the pending election petition is within reach . On this view of the law ubi jus ib  All the postal ballot papers, except those which had been rejected, were destroyed by the mob . Assistant Returning Officer of Zira Assembly segment, on his way to the office of the Returning  High Court held that Article 324 confers "plenary executive powers" on the Election Commission and there were no limitations on the functions contemplated in Article 324 . The High Court also held that  Article 324 came to the notice of this Court for the first time in N. P. Ponnuswami v Returning Officer, Namakkal Constituency and Others .  The word 'election' has been used in Part XV of the Constitution in the wide sense, that is to say, to connote the entire procedure to be gone through to return a  Election Commission is a high-powered and independent body which is irremovable from office except in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution relating to the removal of Judges of the Supreme Court .  Section 64A that the legislature envisaged the necessity for the cancellation of poll and ordering of repoll in particular polling stations where situation may warrant such a course . Section 58 and section 64  The High Court of Punjab and Haryana is not concerned with whether the impugned order is right or wrong or invalid on any account . We are not concerned about the question whether  Election Commission has passed the order professedly under Article 324 and section 153 of the Act . We have already held that the order is within the scope and ambit of Article 324 of the  R.P.B. R.B.'s appeal dismissed . Appeal dismissed .