 SC 1107; 1961 (2) SCR 295 (7 November 1960) The respondents were the elected members of the Vicarabad 296 Municipal Committee, constituted in 1953, under the  The appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad dismissing the petition filed by the appellants under Art. 226 of the Constitution .  The local institutions in that part of the country and to bring them on a par with those prevailing in the neighbouring States . For one reason or other, the local institution was not in a  Learned counsel contends that the section would be void for the following reasons: (1) s. 320(1)(a) of the Act would be ultra vires the powers of the  It is suggested that correct interpretation of the relevant provisions of s. 16 of the Act would flow from a correct interpretation . The High Court does not disclose that any argument was addressed on the  The argument is that the Collector's power to hold a general election is confined to s. 16(1) and, as in the case of the members of the Committee deemed to have  The difficulty is created by the fact of the Government not proceeding under s. 17 of the Act within a reasonable time from the date on which the Act came into force . This is a  Learned counsel contends that the provisions of s. 76 govern the situation and that s. 77 may apply only to a property vested in the Committee under provisions other than those of ss. 72  Appeal fails and is dismissed but, in the circumstances, without costs . We have held that s. 77 confers an express power on the Municipal Committee to sell property subject to the conditions  Section 34 states that members of the Committee shall hold office for a term of three years and that term of office shall be deemed to commence on the date of the first meeting called under s  The object of the new Act would fail if no general election could be held under it . The only section providing for general elections being held, is s. 16(1) In my  The real solution of the difficulty lies in construing s. 16(1) so as to authorise the holding of the first general election under it and remove the absurdity of there