 Prosecution said the film was a grotesque satire containing a scathing criticism of the functioning of the Central Government . The film was viewed on April 24, 1975 by an Examining Committee of the  Emergency was proclaimed on the night of between 25th and 26th of June, 1975 and soon thereafter A 1 took charge as the Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting and he was of the  Sanjay Gandhi (A 1) in Criminal Appeal No. 493/79 was convicted by the Sessions Judge, Delhi under section 120B read with Ss. 409, 435,  The Act, by clubbing together persons accused of offences committed during the Emergency with those alleged to be guilty of crimes pertaining to periods before and after the Emergency, has violated the guarantee under  Section 5(1) has no application to the facts of the present case . Section 6 is an extension of the scheme contained in section 5, the former does not overrule the entire  The Bill was challenged before the Supreme Court on the touch stone of Art. 14 on several groups . It was argued that no rational basis for separately classifying Emergency offenders existed . The classification  The word 'high' is indication of a top position and enabling the holders thereof to take major policy decisions . This, therefore, clearly includes Cabinet Ministers, Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Parliamentary  Section 5(1) does not suffer from the vice of excessive delegation of powers so as to violate Article 14. It is well settled that discretionary power is not the same thing as power  At the stage when the declaration is sought to be made there is no list pending nor has any prosecution been launched against the accused . Section 5 deals only with the decision taken by the Central  The doctrine has no application to the provisions of a Central or State law because if the statute is violative of any provision of the Constitution it can be struck down on that ground .  The prosecution failed to prove either there was any existence of any conspiracy between A and A to destroy the film 'Kissa Kursi Ka' by burning it or commit any other offence  The mere fact that A 1 decided to show the film and refused certification for public exhibition does not disclose any offence . The decision to ban the film was not taken by A 1 secretly or  The film and all the material relating to it no doubt appear to have vanished into thin air but then neither A 1 nor A 2 can be held responsible therefor, in the absence of  The Act was preceded by a Bill (introduced by a Member of the Lok Sabha) which was adopted by the Government . The President made a reference to this Court for its opinion regarding  The preamble and its various clauses are not merely intended to spell out the object of the Act but contain important guidelines and essential safeguards . There are as many as nine clauses of the  Clause (3) provides for the establishment of additional courts presided over by sitting Judges of High Courts . Clause (9) refers to certain procedural changes brought about by the Act in the provisions  The main ground of attack regarding the constitutional validity of the Act is based on Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution . Under s. 11 an appeal to the Supreme Court from an order of  The onus lies upon the person who attacks the statute to show that there has been an infraction of the constitutional concept of equality . The Court is entitled to take into consideration matters of  The cover of emergency, so it is alleged, provided a unique opportunity to the holders 525 of such offices to subvert the rule of law and perpetrate political crimes on the society .  An 'ephemeral' measure to meet a perennial menace is neither a logical step nor national fulfillment . The classification, if I may anticipate my conclusion, is on the brink of constitutional  The Act does not suffer from the infirmities pointed out by Mr. Bhatia and the circumstance that it applies to offences committed at any time by a particular set of persons possessing  The Supreme Court made clear observations that an Act providing for such a classification would be not only valid but also welcome . It is true that the provision regarding a particular period before the Emergency was  The Cabinet is the body of principal Ministers with whom rests the real direction of policy . Parliamentary Secretaries are members of one or other of the Houses of Parliament, they are Junior Ministers who  The Court is satisfied that the terms 'persons holding high public or political offices' are self-explanatory and admits of no difficulty . It is not only proper but essential to  Bill provides, to empower the Supreme Court to dispose of pending appeals and revisions as provided for by clause 6 of the Bill . It also abrogates s. 181 of the Code of  S. 5(1) suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of powers so as to violate Art. 14 in as much as the discretion conferred on the Central Government is absolute, naked  In the case of Moti Ram Deka etc. v. General Manager, N. E. Railway, Maligaon, Pandu, etc. Shah J., speaking for the  Mr. Bhatia argued that the provisions about declaration contained in s. 5 (1) were violative of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as they do not provide for  A conviction of an accused person cannot mean that there is no prima facie evidence against him . Conviction is construed as evidence of the existence of something more than a mere prima  The Central Government declares that there is prima facie evidence of the commission of the offences alleged to have been committed by Shri Vidya Charan Shukla and Shri San  The matter is no longer res integra and is concluded by several decisions of this Court, the most recent of them being M/s. Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd. & ors.  Mridul contended that section 6 does not overrule the entire Code of Criminal Procedure but in fact takes in only those cases which are pending at the trial stage 549 when the declaration  The decision relied upon by Mr. Mridul is of no assistance to him and that his argument is without merit . We find that the procedure prescribed by the Act is not harsh or  An appeal pending in the High Court stands transferred to the Supreme Court . Appellate Court can dismiss an appeal summarily if it is satisfied that there is no sufficient ground for interference .  Under the provisions of s. 376 of the Code of Criminal Procedure no appeal by a convicted person would lie in any of the following cases . Under the Act the right of appeal provided by  The West Bengal legislature passed the West Bengal Special Courts Act (hereinafter to be referred to as the 'West Bengal Act) constituting Special Courts and empowering the State Government to refer  Sastri, C.J., held that the classification was a reasonable one and sustained the validity of the law . Fazal Ali, J., laid stress on the fact that  Anwar Ali Sarkar's case (supra) can be called into aid for the purpose of striking down the Act, the judges say . The judges say the West Bengal Act has  The appellant, V. C. Shukla (hereinafter referred to as 'A-1') in criminal appeal No. 494 of 1979 has been convicted by the Sessions  Kissa Kursi Kaa was produced by Shri Amrit Nahata under the banner of Dhwani Prakash . The film, according to the prosecution, was a  The film faced rough weather even at the initial stage of consideration by the Board as a result of which the matter was referred to the Central Government where the question of refusal of certification was seriously  Prosecution has to discharge its onus of providing the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt . We are unable to find any acceptable evidence connecting either of the appellants with the existence of  Prosecution said the prints were screened at the instance of PW 1, Amrit Nahata . The prosecution also examined some other witnesses to show that the transfer 568 of the positives of  Witness L. Dayal states that A-1 called him and said he had decided to keep all material relating to the film in his personal custody and that detailed arrangements for the delivery of  An inquiry was held by Narayanan into the manner how the prints of the film were missing and in that inquiry PW 17, Sreedharan, did not say at all that  Prosecution has failed to prove that the positive prints of the film were transferred from the Auditorium to the personal custody of A-1 or that the said transfer was done in accordance with  The then Minister of I & B gave instructions to L. L. Dayal, Jt. Secy.Information, in presence of the film, "Kursi Kaa  Prosecution says that Tripathi was Special Assistant to A-1 to receive the materials at New Delhi Railway Station and make arrangements for their transport . But Tripathi says he never went to  The existence of the only circumstance on the basis of which the witness could have identified Tripathi becomes doubtful . The possibility that the witness committed some mistake in identifying cannot be ruled out .  A. K. Verma, the then Joint Secretary wanted to know whether the Government had any inherent power to destroy property which had been seized or forfeited, and also disclosed that the  Prosecution claim that the film material was burnt inside the Maruti Complex on two consecutive nights and that the fact was reported to A-2 an each of the two following mornings . Defence  Watchman Om Prakash, PW 31 was to be on duty during the whole of the month in the third shift only, i.e., daily from 10.00 p.  Prosecution has not been able to prove that there was any existence of any conspiracy between A-1 and A-2 . Prosecution: 'Recalls said to have been made during  There is no evidence to show that there was any meeting of minds between A-l and A-2 . We have already shown that the decision to ban the film was not taken by