 The husband filed a petition for annulment of marriage on the round of fraud, for divorce on the ground of unsoundness of mind and for judicial separation on the grounds of cruelty  Court has often a difficult choice to make but it is this choice which ultimately determines where the preponderance of probabilities lies . It is not necessary, as under English Law, that the  The wife did not take up the plea of condonation in her written statement . The High Court held that the conduct of the wife was not cruel and in any case it was cond  Bombay High Court in Second Appeal No. 480 of 1968 . The case was brought by the appellant for annulment of his marriage with the respondent or alternatively for divorce or for judicial separation  In October 1958 the appellant took a job in the Pusa Institute of Delhi, On March 21, 1959 the second daughter, Vibha, was born . The respondent delivered at P  The parties are Hindus but we do not propose, as is commonly done and as has been done in this case, to describe the respondent as a "Hindu wife in contrast to non  A careful consideration of the evidence by the High Court ought to be enough assurance that the finding of fact is correct . The High Court itself felt that there was no evidence on the record with  The normal rule which governs civil proceedings is that a fact can be said to be estabilshed if it is proved by a preponderance of probabilities . In civil cases this, normally  The High Court on this question begins with the decision in Moonshee Bazloor Rubeem v. Shamsoonnissa Begum(3), where the Privy Council observed:  The Court has to deal, not with an ideal husband and ideal wife (assuming any such exist) but with the particular man and woman before it . The court cannot apply to the habits  In many marriages each party can, if it so wills, discover many a cause for complaint but such grievances arise mostly from temperamental disharmony . The couple's letters to each other  The appellant complained to the respondent's father who was then in Indonesia that the respondent kept on abusing him, his parent and sister . The respondent used to describe the appellant's mother as a  Most of these incidents are otherwise, supported, some by the admissions of the respondent herself . On July 18, 1960 the respondent wrote a letter (Ex. 274) to the appellant admitting  The husband is said to have provoked the wife to say and act the way she did and he cannot be permitted to take advantage of his own wrong . The wife's conduct must be exc  The High Court says that the wife's conduct does not amount to cruelty . She delights in causing misery to her husband and his relation- and she willingly suffers the calculated insults which her  The spouses co-habited till February 27, 1961 and a child was born to them in August, 1961 . The 1st Appellate Court on the issue of cruelty and it  The doctrine of condonation was established by the old ecclesiastical courts in Great Britain and was adopted by the English Courts from the canon law . 'Condonation' is a technical  The incident of March 19, 1961 is too trifling to deserve any notice . For example, gross familiarities short of adultery (1) or desertion for less than the statutory period  The respondent would stay at her parents' place until her delivery but she would visit the appellant off and on . The appellant had worked himself up to believe that the respondent had gone off her  The respondent was in the Poona Mental Hospital as a lunatic before the marriage . The appellant was anxious to disseminate the information as widely as possible that the respondent was of uns  Appeal dismissed and direct appellant to pay the costs of the respondent .