 The Delhi Development Authority Act was enacted to provide for the development of Delhi through Master and Zonal Plans . The petitioners assailed the levy and collection of surcharge in addition to the  It is not possible to hold that allottees of 706 flats in MIG scheme at any place and executed at any time will form one class for the purpose of pricing policy .  There is not the slightest or even a remote reference to "no profit no loss" formula for determining the cost price . Project-wise price fixation cannot be dubbed as arbitrary or discriminatory by  The contention that the Authority has made a huge profit by levy of surcharge is without merits . This note was approved by the Financial Advisor (Housing) and ultimately countersigned by the  Delhi Development Act, 1957, was enacted with the a view to providing for the development of Delhi according to the plan and for arresting haphazard growth and for matters ancillary thereto  The petitioners belong to MIG, each of whom registered himself as an intending applicant for a flat in MIG scheme . Each of whom has 711 been allotted a flat either in  Petitioners have invoked jurisdiction of this Court for a relief of re-opening concluded contracts . Petitioners offered themselves for registration for allotment of flats that may be constructed by the, Authority  Petitioners were under no obligation to seek allotment of flats even after they had registered themselves . They looked at the price and flats and applied for the flats voluntarily . They were lucky enough  Allottees of flats in all MIG schemes irrespective of area and location and irrespective of when the flats were constructed form one class for determining price of flats . Petitioners contend that there  Allottees of flats in MIG scheme at Munirka which project came up at or about the same time were not subjected to surcharge . Petitioners could not point out unequal  Delhi Development Authority (Management and Disposal of Housing Estates) Regulations, 1968, are framed in exercise of the powers conferred by s. 57 and were laid before the Houses of Parliament  The Income Tax Department wanted to acquire 40 MIG flats in Prasad Nagar area and the same were offered at the price of Rs.75,000, per flat . The  The Chairman enjoyed 722 a very wide discretionary power . Once the power to delegate is given by the Regulations the challenge to validity on the ground of delegation must fail . The last contention was