 There is no substance in the plea that the High Court cannot be treated as res judicata because it cannot entertain a petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution . Citizens have ordinarily the  Duchess of Kingston's case is not a mere technical rule that cannot be applied to petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution . The binding character of judgments of courts of competent jurisdiction is in  Six writ petitions filed Gaje, under Art. 32 of the Constitution have been placed before the Court for final disposal in a group because though they arise between separate parties and are un  Petitioners had no alternative but not to press the petition before the High Court . Allahabad High Court had already interpreted s. 20 of the U.P. Land Reforms Act as  The argument that Art. 32 does not confer upon a citizen the right to move this Court by an original petition seems to be unsound . We are not impressed by the argument that we  The right to move this Court by a petition under Art. 32 and claim an appropriate writ against the unconstitutional infringement of his fundamental rights is a matter of fundamental right . The rule of res  If a judgment has been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction it is binding between the parties unless it is reversed or modified by appeal, revision or other procedure prescribed by law . The rule  The previous decision on which res judicata was pleaded was a decision of this Court in a petition filed under Art. 32 and in that sense the background of the dispute, was different  Article 226 confers jurisdiction oil the High Court to entertain a suitable writ petition, whereas Art. 32 provides for moving this Court for a similar writ petition for the same purpose . The scope  In England, technically an order passed on a petition for habeas corpus is not regarded as a judgment and that places the petitions for ha beas corpus in a class by themselves .  If a writ petition filed by a party under Art. 226 is considered on the merits as &-contested matter, and is dismissed the decision thus pronounced would continue to bind the parties  A co-lessee of the petitioner had also filed a similar Writ Petition, No. 299 of 1958 . On this writ petition the High Court no doubt made certain observations and findings but  There would be no order as to costs . Petition dismissed .