 The appellant was declared elected to the House of the People from a parliamentary constituency . The respondent No. 1 challenged the election of the appellant on the ground that the appellant, his election and  Appeal to the electorate on a ground personal to the candidate relating to his language attracts the ban of s. 100 read with s. 123(3) It is only when the electors are  Sidhanti admitted, that he had participated in the meetings to canvass votes, but claimed that he was not responsible for convening the meetings or for the speeches made by others in  Daulta challenged the election on the ground that Sidhanti, his election and other agents committed many corrupt practices . The High Court accordingly allowed the appeal and declared the election of Sid  Daulta had alleged that appeals were made by Sidhanti and his election and other agents, to the electorate to vote for him or refrain from voting for him on the ground of  If the evidence fails to establish 759 the responsibility for the use of or appeal to the religious or national symbols by the returned candidate or by his election agent, no ground for setting aside  Tribunal held that the evidence was not sufficient to prove that in the meetings at Beri, Barhana, Dighal, Sampla, Ladpur, Pakasma and Ass  The High Court appears unfortunately to have lost sight of the grounds given by the Tribunal . The testimony of the witnesses was discarded by the High Court because in their view the witnesses were interested in  K.K. Katyal said he had attended the meeting at Rohtak town as a special correspondent of the Hindustan Times, Delhi and that he recollected that flags with  The Tribunal refused to accept the evidence of the witnesses on the ground that their statements considerably departed from the summary given in Sch. 'D' by the petitioner Daulta himself . The  The High Court is unable to agree with the conclusions recorded by the High Court that Sidhanti used an office of the Hariana Lok Samiti on which the "Om flag"  Appeal to the electorate on a ground personal to the candidate relating to his language attracts the ban of s. 100 read with s.centric123(3) It is only when the electors  The High Court was unable to agree with the High Court that Sidhanti was guilty of any corrupt practice under s.123(3) of the Act . The appeal will therefore be