 M/s. Needle Industries (India) Ltd. (NIIL) was incorporated under the Indian Companies Act 1913 as a Private Company on 20.7.1949 .  NIIL was at one time wholly owned by NI-Studley and later by NI Studley and Newey . The affairs were managed ever since 1956 by an entirely Indian Management .  Holding Company wanted a substantial part of the share capital held by it in excess of 40 per cent to be transferred to Madura Coats an Indian company in which the Holding Company had substantial  Devagnanam delayed deliberately the intimation of the proceedings of the 6th April to the Holding Company to prevent it from exercising its lawful rights . By deciding to issue the rights shares  The plea of oppression having been rejected the course being adopted is intended primarily to set right the course of justice . Devagnanam, his group and the other Indian share- holders who  It puts a severe strain on ones credulity to believe that the letters of offer dated April 14 to the Holding Company, to Raeburn and to Manoharan were posted on  Court has to satisfy itself that to wind up the company will unfairly prejudice the members complaining of oppression, but that otherwise the facts will justify the making of a winding up order on the ground  There is ample material on the record in the form of affidavits correspondence and other documents, on the basis of which proper and necessary inferences can safely and legitimately be drawn . Devagn  Silverston's alleged personal hostility to Coats cannot make him person "directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the contract or arrangement" in the discussion of which he had to participate  It is not true to say, as a statement of law, that Directors have no power to issue shares at par, if their market price is above par . The definition of 'private  Under section 44 of the Act, where a private company alters its Articles in such manner that they no longer include the provisions, which under section 3(1)(iii) are required to  When section 43A was introduced by Act 65 of 1960, the legislature apparently overlooked the need to exempt companies falling under it from the operation of clause (c) of sec. 81(  The right to renounce shares in favour of any other person has no application to a company like NIIL . The charge of oppression arising out of the central accusation of non-all  The main contending parties in these appeals are the Needle Industries (India) Limited and the 715 Needle industries-Newey (Indian Holdings) Limited . The main appeal was  The NIIL, it shall have been noticed, was incorporated about two years after India attained independence . By 1971- 72 the Holding Company owned 18, 990 shares and the Indian  Devagnanam was offered the office of Managing Director of a group of four companies in Hong Kong and Taiwan on a five year contract, with an annual salary of six thousand pounds .  Devagnanam was residing in Hong Kong to fulfil his commitment to NEWEY's far- eastern business interests . FERA had implications for him too, especially since he could be regarded  NIIL was incorporated as a Private Company in 1949 under the Indian Companies Act, 1913\. It had the option to retain its Articles relating to matters specified in section 3 (1)  On October 20 and 21, 1976, a meeting took place at Ketti between the U.K. shareholders and the Indian shareholders of NIIL . The bone of contention was as  On March 18, 1977 a notice was issued by NIIL's Secretary, D.P. Kingsley, intimating that a meeting of the Board of Directors will be held on  The Holding Company was denied an opportunity to exercise its option whether or not to accept the offer of rights shares . The next meeting of the Board was due to be 726 held on May  Devagnanam sent a telex to the Board of Directors on May 2, 1977 . He said the decision to issue the shares at par was most unfair to the shareholders who could  Devagnanam wrote to Raeburn apologising for the manner in which the foreign shareholding had been reduced . He expressed the hope that Mackrael would agree that the decision regarding  NIIL was deprived unjustly of a sum of Rs, 8,54,550/- at the rate of Rs. 90/- per share on the 9,495 rights shares to  The issue of rights shares was sprung as a surprise on the U.K. shareholders . The conversion of the existing minority of Indian shareholders into a majority was an act of self-ag  Devagnanam-NEWEY Combination was the furtherance 735 of the interest of NEWEY's Far-Eastern enterprises, coupled with the personal interest of the company . Dev  The Board meetings were set aside and the Interim Board was directed to make a fresh issue of shares at a premium to existing shareholders, including the Holding Company which was to have a right  Reserve Bank of India was agreeable to such dilution taking place by the petitioner selling a part of its holding to an Indian resident or Indian residents . The Reserve Bank had indicated that 739  The High Court has answered this question in the affirmative and has issued consequential directions in regard to the management of NIIL's affairs . The main question for consideration is whether the decisions taken  Leading case on 'oppression' under section 210 is the decision of the House of Lords in Scottish Co-op. Wholesale Society Ltd. v. Meyer .  There is room in company law for recognition of the fact that behind it, or amongst it, there are individuals, with rights, expectations and obligations inter se which are not necessarily submerged in  Elder v. Elder had not received the notice of the Board meeting . It was held that since it was not shown that any prejudice was occasioned thereby or that Elder could have bought the  The English Law remains the same as in Meyer and in Re H.R.R., (1) as modified in Re Jermyn St. Turkish Baths . The Foreign Exchange  NIIL, being a Company in which the non-resident interest of the Holding Company was more than 40%, could not carry on its business in India except with the permission of the  Shri Nariman raised at the outset an objection to a finding of mala fides or abuse of the fiduciary position of Directors being recorded on the basis merely of affidavits  The Company Petition was argued both in the Trial Court and in the Appellate Court on the basis of affidavits filed by the parties, the correspondence and the documents . The High Court  The Reserve Bank of India was not informed of the proposal to issue right shares to existing shareholders although it was the most obvious thing to do, in response to its letter dated March 30,  Devagnanam played a key role in negotiations with the Holding Company and masterminded the issue of rights shares . Coats refused persistently, both actively and passively, either to dis  Devagnanam wanted to dispose of his shares at a large premium by officially receiving the par value in Rupees in India and obtaining the balance in foreign currency outside India . Devagn  Coats/Needle Industries (U.K.) made clear to Devagnanam that neither Coats nor Needle Industries would ever be a party to any transaction which was illegal  The charge against NEWEY is that because of their Far-Eastern interests in which Devananam was a great asset to them, they were supporting Devagnanam .  In October 1978, Coats Patons, Hong Kong, got the Indian Company's Trade Mark 'Pony' registered . Needle Industries U.K. filed in Thailand on behalf  The motivation of Coats at all times was to advance their own world interests at the expense of NIIL . The Design drawing is not the drawing of a bungalow (with  The Reserve Bank of India granted permission to NIIL under FERA to carry on its business on certain conditions, one of them being that the non-resident interest in the equity capital  Raeburn and Mackrael came to India to discuss the dilution of the non-resident holding in NIIL . A meeting was held at Ketty on October 20 and 21  The Ketty meeting ended in a stalemate, both sides insisting on what they considered to be their right and entitlement . Raeburn attempted to play the role of a mediator but  The Indian point of view was communicated with the greatest clarity to Raeburn in Devagnanam's letter dated December 14, 1976 . The views of the U.K. shareholders  Shri Seervai: Proposal to increase the holding of the existing Indian shareholders to 49% and offer of 11% to new Indian independent institutional shareholders was inconsistent with the charge that  NIIL's Secretary gave a notice of the Board meeting for April 6, 1977 . The notice was admittedly received by Sanders in U.K., well in time but did not attend  NIIL received a letter dated March 30, 1977 from the Reserve Bank . Minutes of the meeting show that two directors, Sanders and Rajes, asked for leave of absence which was  The issue of rights shares was made by the Directors for the purpose of complying with the requirements of FERA and the directives issued by the Reserve Bank under that Act . NIIL had  The Privy Chuncil in Howard Smith Ltd. v. Ampol Petroleum Ltd. (supra) refer to the High Court of Australia in Harlowe's Nominees P  The right to dispose of shares at a given price is essentially an individual right to be exercised on individual decision and on which a majority, in the absence of oppression or similar impropriety  The decision to issue shares cannot be struck down on the ground that it has incidentally benefited the Directors in their capacity as shareholders . We must reject Shri Seervai's argument that in  Companies Act disqualifies Director from taking part in discussion of or voting on any contract or arrangement entered into or on behalf of the company, if he is in any way concerned or interested in  The decision to issue rights shares was assailed on the ground also that the company did not, as required by the Reserve Bank's letter dated May 11, 1975 submit any scheme indicating whether  Minutes of the meeting of April 6 show that the Company needed additional capital for its expansion . Minutes say: "As per the final budget for the year 1977, the working capital requirements amounted  Devagnanam wrote a letter to Raeburn on April 12, 1977 stating that a copy of 793 the Reserve Bank's letter dated March 30, 1977 was enclosed therewith  The object of withholding these important documents, until it was quite late to act upon them, was to present to the Holding Company a fait accompli in the shape of the Board's  The late posting of the letter of offer to the Holding Company as also of the notice of meeting for May 2 to Sanders is one thing: We have already dealt with that aspect of the  The decision taken in the meeting of May 2 cannot, in the normal circumstances, affect the legal rights of the Holding Company . It is self-evident that Sanders could not possibly have  The Reserve Bank granted permission to NIIL to carry on its business, "subject to the conditions" mentioned in the letter of May 11, 1976 . The dilution of the non  It would be ironical that the measure which was taken by NIIL's Board of Directors for the purpose of reducing the non-resident holding to a level not exceeding 40% should  The relevant Articles of Association of NIIL are Articles 11, 32, 38 and 50 and they read thus .  The right of renunciation is not a transfer and therefore the directors' power to refuse to register the shares under the articles does not extend to renunciation . Section 81(1A)  The crucial words in the provisos are "may include" (or may retain) The words "may contain" are mandatory and go to the constitution of a private company . The  The opening words of Sections 81 (1) (c) are "unless the articles of the company otherwise provide", counsel cited the Collins English Dictionary and the Random House Dictionary .  Shri Seervai's argument rests on the foundation that there is no third kind of company recognised by the Companies Act .  A right of renunciation in favour of any other person, as a statutory term of an offer of rights shares, would be repugnant to the integrity of the Company and the continued  Companies which have become public companies under section 43(1) but retain the three characteristics of private companies mentioned in section 3(1)(iii) 814 of the Act . Public companies  The acceptance of Shri Nariman's argument involves tinkering with clause (a) of section 81(3), which shall have to be read as saying that "Nothing in section 81  An invitation by or on behalf of a private company to a few of the promoter's friends and relations will not be deemed to be an offer to the public . An offer of securities in  The judge says clause (c) of section 81(1) cannot apply to section 43A-proviso companies . Article 11 provides that in order that the company may be a  Section 43A companies are entitled under the proviso to include provisions in their Articles relating to matters specified in section 3(1)(iii) The right of renunciation in favour of any  Members of a section 43A-proviso company have a limited right of renunciation, under which they can renounce the shares offered to them in favour of any other member or  Meeting of 2nd May, 1977 was unquestionably illegal for reasons already stated . The Board of Directors in that meeting could not, in the normal circumstances, create mutual rights and obligations between  Devagnanam and his group were always ready and willing to buy the excess shares of the Holding Company at a fair price . The purported offer was made by Khaitan "a  The average market value of NIIL's shares in April-May 1977 can be taken to be Rs. 190 per share . The Indian shareholders will receive an amount equivalent to that by  N.V. Sabharwal as a Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors . After taking the charge from the interim Board, the Board will take expeditious steps for convening