 1977 (1) SCR 439; 1976 (4) SCC 233 (31 August 1976) FAZALALI, SYED MURTAZA FAzALAL  The court drew adverse inference for the conviction of the appellant on the sole testimony of the Nazir completely ignoring the important admissions made in favour of the accused by other prosecution witnesses, some of  Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 11-5-71 of the Orissa High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 14/70 . Appellant was the Additional District  It is alleged that on January 9, 1965 the appellant directed the Nazir to pay him a sum of Rs.10,000/from the cash which remained with the cash . The  High Court has found that as the entrustment was proved and admitted by the appellant himself and the explanation given by him was absolutely false, this would lead to the inference that the appellant  It is sufficient if the accused is able to prove his case by the standard of preponderance of probabil- ities as envisaged by s. 5 of the Evidence Act .  The Courts below have chosen to place implicit reliance on the evidence of P.W. 1 the Nazir who has categorically stated (1) [1975] 1.S.C  P.W. 8 Sayad Allamuddin who was the Land Acquisition Officer Cuttack has testified to the fact that in the meeting held on September 25, 1964 the appellant had  A clever witness in his examination-in-chief faith- fully conforms to what he stated earlier to the police or in the committing court, but in the cross-examination introduces statements  A. agwan Singh v. State of Haryana(1), Bhag- wati, J., speaking for this Court observed as follows: "The prosecution could have been  The prosecution has miserably failed to prove that the visit of the A.D.M. to the village Balichandrapur on Janu- ary 9, 1965 was  All the prosecution witnesses P.Ws. 6, 7 and 8 had been allowed to be declared hostile without any justification . The Trial Court appear to have exercised its discretion mechanically in readily accepting  The High Court seems to have explained the irregularities committed by the Nazir . P.W. 9 who was the Nizarat Officer . has clearly stated that the amount was taken by  It is possible that he may have made an error of judgment or calculation or he was rather too optimistic but this conduct by itself does not lead to the inference of dishonest inten- tion  Appeal allowed, the judgments of the Courts below are set aside, the convictions and sentences imposed on the appellant are quashed and he is acquitted .