 The petitioner was a partner in a firm that carried on the business of manufacture and sale of hand-made bidis . On December 14, 1957, the State Government issued a notification under  Hand-made and machine-made bides were unconditional exempted from payment of sales tax from July 1, 1958 . Sales Tax Officer sent a notice to the firm for the assessment of tax  The right to move this Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of fundamental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution is itself a guaranteed fundamental right . The validity of such an order cannot be  It is settled law that Art. 32 confers a wide jurisdiction on this Court to enforce the fundamental rights . Constitution does not empower the Legislature to make an order of an executive authority final  Article 32 contains a guaranteed right to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of fundamental rights . Taxing laws may be opposed to the fundamental rights, they may be made by a legislature beyond its  Petition for enforcement of a fundamental right could arise if a tax was assessed under a law which was (1) void under Art. 13 or, (2) was ultra vires the  Petition filed under Art. 32 of the Constitution, the petitioner impugns the validity of a levy of sales tax made by the Sales Tax Officer, Allahabad, by his order dated  Petitioner filed an application under Art. 133 of the Constitution for certificate for appeal to this Courts against the above order . But instead of pursuing that remedy, the petitioner has chosen to file  Article 265 provides that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law . Article 265 not in Chapter III of the Constitution, its protection is not a fundamental right which can be  Article 265 imposes a limitation on the taxing power of the State in so 'far as it provides that, the State shall not levy or collect a tax, except by, authority of law  Article 19(1) (g) enacts that all citizens have the right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business . Moopil Nair's  Sales tax was sought to be imposed under explanation II to s 2 (g) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act 21 of 1947 . The State resisted the application  The High Court of Patina dismissed a petition under Art.226 in Patina for a writ of prohibition restraining the Sales Tax O.fficer from making an assessment of sales tax .  Petitioner contends that Art. 1,9(1)(g) must be held to be violated not merely when an assessment is made under a statute which is ultra vires, but  Kailash Nath v. State of U.P., a petition challenging the levy of a tax was entertained by this court even though the Act under the authority of which the tax was  Moopil Nair's Case (2), which has been already discussed in connection with Art. 14, was held to be bad as violative also of Art. 19 (1  A law which contravenes Art. 14 will be bad, Moopil Nair's case (1) A law made by a competent legislature is not open to attack under Art  The constitutional provisions bearing on this question are Arts. 12, 13, 19 and 32 . Article 12 enacts that "In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires, the State'  The word "State" is to include "all local or other authorities" with reference to them, the use of the word "includes" would make no sense . It is contended that  Amirabbas Abbasi was appointed guardian of the person and properties of his two children . The application was rejected by the District Judge, who appointed another person, Sultan Hamid Khan,  Sales Tax Officer has to issue notice to the assessee, take evidence in the matter, hear him and decide, in accordance with the statute, whether tax is payable, and if so  It is contended that the definition of "State" in Art. 12 stands and an order made by a Court or tribunal cannot be held to infringe Art. 19(1) (  The matter was finally heard by a larger Bench consisting of S. K. Das, J. L. Kapur, A. K., K. Subba Rao, M. H  Clause (4) makes it clear that the right guaranteed by the Article shall not be suspended except as otherwise provided for by the Constitu- tion . Article 359 of the Constitution states that  The Sales Tax Officer, 828 Agra v. Chhota- bhai Jethabhai Patel & Co. v. The sales tax on the sum of Rs.4  An appeal was dismissed by the High Court on the ground that if the Sales Tax Officer made an assessment which was erroneous, the assessee could challenge it by way of appeal or revision under  Bidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India (1) arose out of a somewhat different set of facts . It was held that the impugned order was discriminatory against the  In Kailash Nath v. The State of Uttar Pradesh (4) a petition challenging the levy of a tax was entertained by this Court even though the Act under the authority of which  Jurisdiction depends not on the truth or falsehood of the facts into which it has to enquire, but upon their nature, and it is determinable "at the commencement, not  The Allahabad High Court was moved by the petitioner under Art. 226 of the Constitution against the order of assessment, passed on an alleged misconstruction of the notification of December 14,  Aniyoth Kunhamina Umma v. Ministry of Rehabilitation (1) was dismissed under Art. 32 . Kailash Nath v. The State of U.P.  An order of assessment made by an authority under a taxing statute which is intra vires cannot be challenged on the sole ground that it is passed on a misconstruction of a provision of  The petitioners firm had also filed an appeal on a certificate of the Allahabad High' Court against the order of that Court dismissing their petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution . The  Sales Tax Officer on November 28, 1958, sent a notice to the petitioner's firm for assessment of tax on sale of biris during the assessment period April 1, 1958 to June 30  An erroneous order, in this (1) [[1951] INSC 2]; [(1951) S.C.R. 127], (2) [(1960) 3 S  In an earlier case dealing with the revisional powers of the Court, Sir Barnes Peacock in Rajah Amir Hassan Khana v. Sheo Baksh Singh (2) said  The decision, whether right or wrong, is a perfectly valid act which has the authority of an intra vires statute behind it . Appeal would lie under Art. 136 of the Constitution of  Aniyoth Kunhamina Umma v. The Ministry of Rehabilitation, Government of India, New Delhi (1) The petitioners pursued their remedy by way of an appeal to  K. Das, J., delivering the judgment of the Court observed that on account of the decision of an authority of competent jurisdiction the right alleged by the petitioner has been found not to exist  Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v.State of Bihar (1): "We are unable to agree the above conclusion. The High Court appears to have overlooked the fact that the main contention  The action taken thereunder must necessarily be unconstitutional which is challengeable by an aggreived party under Art. 32 . In Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v.  The court held that not only must a law be valid in the sense of there being legislative competence, it must also not infring the fundamental rights declared by the Constitution . The decision was  Kailash Nath v. The State of Uttar Pradesh A. I. R. R.'s petition was entertained by this Court even though the Act under the authority of which the tax  A petition was filed under Art. 32 which was supported by the Union Government . The petitioner was assessed to sales tax in calculating which the price of the sales made to the Government of India  Rajasthan passed orders assuming certain jagirs under Rajathan Land Reforms and Resumption of Jagirs Act . Properties comprised in that petition were not within the impugned  A petition under Arts. 226 .and 227 of the Constitution was filed against the order of renewal after the usual appeals had been taken and proved unsuccessful and the petition was summarily dismissed .  A review of these cases shows that the law which is ultra vires is a non-existing law and any action taken thereunder, quasi-judicial or otherwise, would be a contra  Sales tax since long (1) INSC 40; [[1955] 2 S.C.R. 509.] (2) (2), (3) (1955  An administrative tribunal acting as an administrative tribunal and acting as a judicial tribunal may be distinguished thus:. An 'administrative' tribunal need not act on legal evidence at all, but only  Appeal was dismissed by this Court for non-prosecution on February 20, 1961 . No sufficient cause has been made out for allowing the application for restoration . Application for restoration is therefore dismissed  Article 13(2) prohibits the State from making any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by the said Part and declares that 883 any law made in contravention of  The powers given to this Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution are much wider and are not confined to issuing prerogative writs only . This Court further elucidated the scope of  In Daryao v. State of U.S. P. (1) this Court applied the doctrine of res judicata and held that the petitioners in that case had  The Sales-tax Officer imposes a tat on the turnover of the petitioner relating to the said bidis . He files successive statutory appeals to the hierarchy of tribunals but without su  The Act imposes a tax on the turnover of sales of certain commodities and provides a machinery for the levy, assessment and collection of the said tax . It provides for an appeal against the order  In Bidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India(1), speaking through Das, Das, C.J., set aside the order of an Income-tax Officer . The  It is the duty of this Court to enforce a fundamental right of a party if any authority has infringed his right, considerations based upon inconvenience are, of no relevance . A liberal interpretation  The limitations imposed on the prerogative writs cannot 899 limit the power of the Supreme Court under Art. 32 of the Constitution . In order a writ of certiorari may  A wrong interpretation of the provisions of the Act, he has exercised jurisdiction in respect of a subject-matter, which, on their correct interpretation, he does not possess . No law can  Whether there is an error of law on the face of the record can be determined only on the facts of each case . One Judge as self-evident might not be so considered by  Sales tax Officer had jurisdiction to decide under the relevant sales- tax Act whether a transaction was inside or outside sale . The absence of jurisdiction or want of power in one case was traceable  The Parbhani Transport Co-operative Society Ltd. v, The Union of India (1) accepted the findings of fact recorded by the relevant Customs authorities in Bhatnagars  Aniyoth Kunhamina Umma v. The Ministry of Rehabilitation, Government of India, New Delhi (2) filed a writ petition for enforcement of his fundamental right on the  The Supreme Court has a duty to enforce a fundamental right under Art. 32 of the Constitution, and that a duty is cast upon this Court to enforce it if it is satisfied that the  Art of the Spectacular Spectacular: "The Spectacular Show" will be shown at the University of California . The show will take place in the U.S. at 7.  A welfare State control every aspect of human activity and are in a dominant position to infringe the fundamental rights guaran- teed to the citizens of this country . I would prefer this  Bidis might be hand-made or machine-made, and tobacco included tobacco out of which bidis were made . The condition was applicable to bidis as a unit . Out of  The dispute in this petition is about the quarter ending June 30, 1958, in which the firm claimed the exemption . This claim was rejected on the ground that the firm had not paid any  The breach of fundamental rights is stated to arise under Arts. 31 (1) and 19 (1)(g) primarily by the wrong interpretation . The other side contends that no fundamental rights  The people regard certain rights as paramount, because they embrace liberty of action to the individual in matters of private life, social intercourse and share in the government of the country and other spheres .  In the first ind of oases the law itself fails, and if the law fails,oso does any action under it . In the second kindu,f oases, the laws  The right under Art. 32 is not a right of and this Court may not be in a position to examine the case with the same amplitude as in an appeal . The right to move  The Supreme Court is made, by Arts. 133 and 134, the final Court of appeal over the High Court in all civil and criminal matters . Access to the Supreme Court under Arts.  No Court or tribunal in India other than the Supreme Court and the High Courts has been invested with the jurisdiction to deal with breaches of fundamental rights . Parliament reserved the power to Parliament to invest  In Gullapalli Nageshwara Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh, Das, C. J., observed:"Here the State' which includes its Income-tax  K. P. Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala(1) observed: "Where the provision is void, the protection under Art. 265 fails, and what remains  A comparison of these two Articles shows that laws which do not offend Part III and are not otherwise ultra vires are protected from any challenge whether under Art. 265 or under the Chapter on  The State of U.K. v. Kailash nP.P. was granted an order of assessment made by an authority under a taxing statute which is intra vires .  The bench has been constituted for (1) A.I.R.R.[1957] S.C.79.946 considering the correctness of the decision on these points  Daryao v.The State of U.S. P. P.'s. (1) vests in the Supreme Court the authority and jurisdiction to ensure that the fundamental rights  The Court has a constitutional duty cast upon the Court to afford relief when so approached in every case where fundamental rights were violated . The argument of the learned Attorney-General who appeared for the  The question whether a fundamental right is violated or not is dependent on the action complained of having an impact on a guaranteed right . The existence of procedures for redressing grievances or correcting errors of  The principal underlying the rule of res judicata is based on principles of law of general application and as such would govern also the right to relief under Art. 32 . This Court has  Sales tax is a tax on transactions which are plainly sales in the course of export or import . Sales tax on such a transaction would have been illegal and hence ex-concessis'  The Act which imposed the tax and created the machinery for its assessment, levy and collection is, no doubt, perfectly valid . It does not follow that the deprivation of property occasioned by  It is a matter of 963 concession that where the power of the State is vested in an executive or administrative authority under an enactment is not justified by it, the act may be of  The question for consideration in the context of a petition under Art. 32 is whether there is valid legal sanction behind the action of the authority, for apart from such a sanction it must be  The argument put forward in Support of this proposition was rested in most part, 1 not wholly, on the terms of Art. 12 of the Constitution and the definition of the expression "'State  Article 12 refers to the government (of Union and of the States) as within the definition of a ,State". It is admitted that both the Government of the Union as well as of  The petitioners are manufacturers of handmade biris and there was no duty of excise payable on them under the relevant entry in the Central Excise Act, nor was there any imposition of any  Sales Tax Officer construed notification as meaning exemption granted only in those cases where an additional duty had become payable the same had been paid . The State was intended to be deprived of the right to  The petitioner unsuccessfully challenged the assessment before the sales tax authorities moved the High Court of Allahabad under Art. 226 of the Constitution . The petition was dismissed for non-prosecution on February  The right to carry on trade, business etc., with which we are concerned here falls under (1) [[1951] INSC 2]. [[1955] 1 S.C  The Sales Tax Act in force in Uttar Pradesh is a law of this kind . It not only imposes a tax on the sale of certain commodities but also provides for the assessment of the tax  The binding force (1) [[1960] INSC 285]; [(1961) 3 S.C.R. 77.] The decision cannot be made dependent upon the question whether its  A person cannot complain of a breach of his fundamental right to carry on trade or business because an erroneous decision of a court of law renders him liable to pay a sum of money . But  A person is entitled to treat the action as arbitrary or a nullity and come up to this court under. Art. 32 because the, action would be one which is not authorised by