 Constitution of India Articles 14,21,309,310,311,311 . Article 311: Principle of natural justice whether excluded Mala fide action of disciplinary authority . Conduct of government servant  Article 311 of the Constitution confers certain safeguards upon persons employed in civil capacities under the Union of India or a State . The arguments advanced on the pleasure doctrine and the second proviso to  The Pleasure Doctrine in the United Kingdom relates to the tenure of a government servant, that is, his right to continue to hold office . The doctrine of tenure at pleasure in Article 310  In India the pleasure doctrine has received Constitutional sanction by being enacted in Article 310(1) of the Constitution of India . The pleasure doctrine is not subject to any law made by Parliament or  It is incorrect to say that the pleasure doctrine is a prerogative of the British crown which has been inherited by India and transposed into its Constitution, adapted to suit the Constitutional set  The language of the second proviso to Article 311(2) is plain and unambiguous . There is no ambiguity in these words . The maxim "expressum facit cessare tacit  The principles of natural justice are not the creation of Article 14 of the Constitution but are their Constitution guardian . Article 14 is not the begetter of the principles of . natural justice but  Article 14 applies not only to discriminatory class legislation but also to arbitrary or discriminatory State action . Violation of a rule of natural justice results in arbitrariness which is the same as discrimination  The concept of natural justice is a magnificant thorough bred on which this nation gallops forwards . This thoroughbred must not be allowed to turn into a wild and unruly house, car  The Court in Challappan's case erred in holding that the words "the disciplinary authority may consider the circumstances of the case and make such order thereon as it deems fit"  The word "consider" in its ordinary and natural sense is not capable of the meaning assigned to it in Challappan's case . The consideration of the circumstances under the said Rule 14  There must exist a situation which makes the holding of an inquiry contemplated by Article 311(2) not reasonably practicable . The disciplinary authority should record in writing its reason for its satisfaction that it  The order dispensing with the inquiry and the other of penalty following thereupon would both be void and unconstitutional . This is a Constitutional obligation and if such reason is not recorded in writing,  The expression "security of the State" in clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311(2) does not mean security of the entire country or a whole State but  A number of members of the Madhya Pradesh District Police Force and the . Madhya . Pradesh Special Armed Force were dismissed in order to obtain the release on bail of two of their colleagues  It is not open to the civil servant to contend that he was wrongly convicted by the criminal court . He can, however, contend that the penalty imposed upon him is to severe or excessive  The High Court under Article 226 of this Court will interfere on grounds well-established in law for the exercise of its power of judicial review in matters where administrative discretion is exercised .  In re Tulsiram Patel 160, he was a permanent auditor in the Regional Audit Office . He was tried and convicted under Sec.332 of the Indian Penal Code but the Magistrate  The CIS Force has been constituted under the CISF Act for the better protection and security of industrial undertakings owned by the government . All the acts indulged in by the members of the  M.P. Thakkar J-dissenting: 'Challappan's has been rightly decided. And there is no compulsion to overrule it' The ratio of the  Several government servants were dismissed or removed from service without holding any inquiry . They have not been informed of the charges against them nor been given any opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges  India service or a civil service of a State or who hold a civil post under the Union or a State, occupy in law a special position . The ordinary law of master and servant does  The East India Company sent out to India its own servants and so did the Crown . The Crown could at its pleasure remove any person holding office, whether civil or military, under the East  Acts were repealed by the Government of India Act of 1915 (5 & 6 Geo. V, c.61) Part VIII of the 1915 Act conferred upon the Secretary of State in Council  The Government of India Act, 1919, for the first time expressly stated that every person in the civil service of the Crown in India held office "during His Majesty's pleasure"  The Government of India Act, 1935 (25 & 26 Geo. v, c.42), often cited with the year and chapter of the Act in pursuance of which it was reprinted  Under the 1935 Act, as under the 1919 Act, every person who was a member of the civil service of the Crown in India held office "during His Majesty's pleasure" greater safeguards  The provisions with respect to civil services in the Government of India Act, 1935, were taken as the basis for Chapter I of Part XIV of the Constitution . Articles 309,310 and 311  The words "or Rajpramram" in clause (c) of the proviso to Article 311(2) were omitted by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956  The arguments advanced on behalf of the government servants on the pleasure doctrine and the second proviso to Article 311 (2) may be sketched in broad outlined as under : under :   The concept of civil service is not now or of recent origin . The doctrine of tenure at pleasure in Article 310 and the safeguards given to a government servant under clauses (1) and (  The Permanent Secretary to the Civil Service Department was the Head of the Home Civil Service and gave advice to the Prime Minister as to civil service appointments, decorations, etc. The Civil Service Dep  The report of the case in the All England Law Reports Reprint series is with very minor variations the same as the report in the Times Law Reports series but somewhat abridged . The  Government servants are after all paid from the public exchequer . The efficiency of public administration does not depend only upon the top echelons of these services . For a service to run  Article 309 confers power upon the appropriate Legislature to make laws and upon the President and the Governor of a State to make rules in respect of these matters . Article 309 makes no provision for  Rule 4A of Bihar Government Servants' Conduct Rules was struck down by this Court as being violative of sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (  In India for the first time a fetter was imposed upon the pleasure of the Crown to terminate the service of any of its servant by section 96B of the Government of India Act,  There are two classes of penalties in service jurisprudence, namely, minor penalties and major penalties . Major penalties are dismissal or removal from service, compulsory retirement and reduction in rank .  The Court observed that the Parliament or the Legislature can make a law regulating the conditions of service without affecting the powers of the President or the Governor under Article 310 read with Article 311 . The  The tenure of a public servant is subject to the limitations or qualifications mentioned in Article 311 of the Constitution . The Parliament or the Legislatures of States cannot make a law abrogating or  Second Proviso to Article 311(2) Clause (2) of Article 311 gives a constitutional mandate to the principles of natural justice and audi alteram partem rule . This safeguard  The extent to which a government servant can be denied his right to an inquiry formed the subject-matter of considerable debate at the Bar . The extent of the question is whether under the second  An inquiry into the conduct which led to the conviction of the government servant on a criminal charge would not be necessary . Such a notice would enable him to point out that it was a case  The phrase "a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him" in sub-section(3) of section 240 of the Government of India Act  The substance of the protection provided by rules, like 210 rule 55 referred to above, was bodily lifted out of the rules . The Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963, substituted  The Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act, 1976, amended the substituted clause (2) of Article 311 with effect from 1st January 1977 . The amendments made by this Act  Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act has taken away the right of a government servant to have an opportunity of bringing to the notice of the disciplinary authority that he is not the individual  It is equally in public interest and for public good that a government servant who has been convicted of a grave and serious offence should be dismissed or removed from service instead of being allowed to continue  Article 14 must be read into the second proviso to Article 311(2) and according if not under that proviso read by itself, under it read with Article 14 a government servant  The Romans borrowed parts of laws and customs of non-Roman people with whom they came in commercial contract . They applied jus gentium to those to whom ius civile (civil  As Europe emerged from the Dark Ages in about the ninth century, Christianity became substituted for reason as the supreme force in the universe . This led to the development of a theory of law in  The French Revolution had enthroned reason as a goddess, but the excesses of the French Revolution led to a reaction against the theory that reason was the basis for law . The  Lord Esher, M.R., defined natural justice as "the natural sense of what is right and wrong" The phrase is, of course, used only in a popular sense and  The principles of natural justice are of wide application and great importance, but they must be confined within proper limits and not allowed to run wild . Megarry, J., also found it necessary  Roman law recognized the need for a judge to be impartial and not to have a personal interest in the case before him . The requirement of hearing both sides before arriving at a decision was part  Article 14 contains an express Constitutional injunction against the State as defined in Article 12 prohibiting the State from denying to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws . Article 14  Article 14 prohibits hostile classification by law and is directed against discriminatory class legislation . The propositions deducible from decisions of this court on this point have 230 been set out in the form of  Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment . Bhagwati, J., reaffirmed in Maneka Gandhi's case what he had said  The principles of natural justice have come to be recognized as being a part of the guarantee contained in Article 14 because of the new and dynamic interpretation given by this Court to the concept of equality  Two rules of natural justice, namely, nemojudex in causa sua em audi alteram part, have now a definite meaning and connotation in law and their content and  No wider right than that provided by statute can be claimed nor can the right be narrowed . There are well-defined exceptions to the nemo judex in causa sua rule as  Rules generally provide for a right of appeal except in those cases where the order of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank is passed by the President or the Governor of a State . This would  The majority view in Gopalan's case was buried in K.C.Cooper's case; its burial service was read in Sambhu Nath Sarkar v. The State  Rule 14 of the Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1968 (hereinafter referred to in short as the "Railway Servants Rules") and Rule 37 of  M.Gopala Krishna Naidu was an overseer in the Public Works Department of the Central Provinces and Berar Government . He was suspended from service in 1947 and  Challappan's case decided three appeals against a common judgment of the High Court of Rajasthan allowing the writ petitions filed by three railway servants . The Kerala High Court held that as  The original sub-rule (5) of Rule 10 formed part of the Railway Servants Rules and clause (2) of Article 311 in force was that clause as amended by the Constitution  Kerala High Court allowed writ petitions filed on the ground that the orders of the Magistrate releasing the concerned railway servants on probation did not amount to imposition of penalty as contemplated by Rule 14 of  Rule 14 of the Rules of 1968 incorporates the principle contained in Article 311(2) proviso (a). This provision confers power on the disciplinary authority to decide whether in the facts  In 253 such cases the Government can dismiss, remove or reduce in rank any employee who has been convicted of a criminal charge by force of proviso (a) to Article 311(2  The Court in Challappan's case was, therefore, in error in interpreting Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules by itself and not in conjunction with the second proviso to Article  The correctness of Challappan's case was, therefore, doubted from the very beginning . Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules is similar to that of the Railway Servants Rules . Rule  Rule 29-A confers upon the President a power of review similar to Rule 25-A of the Railway Servants Rules . Rule 29 provides for a right of revision under Rule 29  Rule 29-A specifies the penalties which may be imposed on a member of the CIS Force . Amongst these penalties are dismissal, removal, compulsory retirement and reduction to a lower class or  Rule 37, except the last paragraph thereof, is in pari materia with Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules and Rule 19 of the Civil Services Rules . Rule 49 provides for  Government of India cannot be binding upon the Court with respect to the interpretation it should place upon Article 311(2) of the second proviso . It is unnecessary to deal with these instructions  The Court's attention in Challappan's Case was not drawn to this settled position in law and hence the error committed by it in considering Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules by  The Court can instead substitute a penalty which in its opinion would be just and proper in the circumstances of the case . The words used are "not reasonably practicable" and not "impract  It is not a total or absolute impracticability which is required by clause (b) What is requisite is that the holding of the inquiry is not practicable in the opinion of a  The word "inquiry" in clause (b) of the second proviso includes part of an inquiry . The disciplinary authority should record in writing its reason for dispensing with the inquiry  A government servant who has been dismissed, removed or reduced in rank by applying to his case clause (b) can claim in a departmental appeal or revision that an inquiry be held with  The expression "security of the State" does not mean security of the entire country or a whole State . It also cannot be confined to an armed rebellion or revolt . Disaffection in  Article 311(2) says it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the interest of the security of the State . The satisfaction of the President or Governor must be with respect to  There is no such clause in Article 311 with respect to the satisfaction reached by the President or the Governor under clause (c) of the second proviso . There are two reasons for this  In all matters before us the challenge to the validity of the impugned orders was confined to legal grounds . The contentions with respect to these grounds have been considered by us in the  Controller General of 282 Defence Accounts, who was the disciplinary authority in the case, imposed upon the Respondent the penalty of compulsory retirement under clause (i) of Rule 19 of the Civil  Civil Appeal No. 3484 of 1982 - Union of India and others v. Sada Nand Jha and others . and . G.P.Koushal- relate to  The Army along with 9 Magistrates took up positions round the CISF Lines in the early hours and called upon the agitators to give up charge of the Armoury . The ag  A large group of members of Central Industrial Security Force indulged and still continue to indulge in acts of insubordination and indiscipline, dereliction of duty, absenting from PT  CISF is an Armed Force and the security duties to be performed by the CIS Force are of vital importance to the industrial production of the country . The Force will primarily be responsible for the  A large section of the members of the CIS Force stationed at Bokaro. The acts virtually amounted to a mutiny and how grave the situation was can be judge from the fact that the  The proper running of the railway service is vital to the country . Railway trains carry not only those going for a holiday but also those who commute to work or business . They carry essential commodities  Petitioners were dismissed by orders of the Governor of Madhya Pradesh by applying clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311(2) to them . On January 20,  Some members of the Central Industrial Security Force began carrying on an active propaganda against the Government, visiting Jabalpur and other places in the State of Madhya Pradesh, holding secret meetings,  A 'give' and 'take' of ideas, with due respect for the holders of the opposite point of view (in a true democratic spirit of tolerance) would not have impaired the  Following the law laid down in 'Challappan', the Writ Petitions and allied appeals are allowed and the impugned orders against the Petitioners are declared to be void and qu