 The matter was referred to the Full Bench of the High Court at Allahabad . The writ petition was that the Lucknow Bench had no jurisdiction to entertain and decide the writ petition No 750  High Court (Amalgamation) Order, 1948, refers to legal proceedings including civil cases criminal cases, petitions under Articles 226, 227 and 228 of the Constitution . The word "or  The words "as the Chief Justice may direct" occur in the collocation of words "that the Judges nominated shall sit at Lucknow in order to exercise in respect of cases arising in  Regional Transport Authority, Bareilly fixed strength of Chandausi- Rajghat route at 5 stage carriage permits . The appellant and the respondent No. 3 applied for grant of permits  The dispute arose at Bareilly in Rohilkhand Division, which was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Allahabad High Court, sitting at Allahabad, and it had nothing to do with  The United Provinces High Courts (Amalgamation) order, 1948, hereinafter referred to as the order, was promulgated under section 229 of the Government of India Act  The High Court held as follows. It is open to the Chief Justice to reduce the areas in Oudh referred to in the list proviso to paragraph 14 of the order . The  The Judges at Lucknow hear cases arising in such areas in Oudh as the Chief Justice directs . Cases arising in the areas so removed can no longer be heard at Allahabad .  The two High Courts have amalgamated in the new High Court . The seat is at Allahabad or at such other places as may be determined . There is no permanence attached to  The territories with 12 Districts of Lucknow, Faizabad, Sultanpur, Rai Bareli, Pratap Garh, Barabanki, Gonda, Bahara  High Court ruled that cases arising in areas in oudh will cease to have any significance in relation to Lucknow . High Court said that if the right of the petitioner arose first at  The answers given by the High Court to the first three questions are correct save as modified by our conclusions aforesaid . The meaning of cases arising in oudh areas will be found out