 Two appellants B and N, along with two others who were acquitted by the High Court, were charged with the offence of murder by shooting the deceased, committed on September 12, 1967  Magistrates must make note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused, so that the court which is to  There was not much love lost between Jagdish and Sugriv on the one side and Hazarilal on the other . In 1962 also Jag dish and . Sugriv had  First information report was lodged by Inderjit at police station Iodged, about ten miles away from the place of occurrence at 2.35 p.m. the same day (  Naubat and Budhsen were convicted of the murder of Hazarilal . The High Court confirmed their conviction and sentence as already observed . The prosecution said the weapon of offence  Identification parades are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify per'sons concerned in the offence, who were not previously known to them .  In Ex. Ka 20, Inderjit said "I saw the accused while committing the murder. I did not know him before." In the other five witnesses namely Kanwar Sen,  Kanwar Sen (P.W. 3) deposed that on the day of the occurrence he was sitting in the Nohra of Hazarilal who was sitting on a  Two witnesses claimed to have seen the actual occurrence which took three or four minutes . Witness was unable to tell the dates on which he had gone to the jail for identification on three occasions .  The statements of these three witnesses are otherwise also unimpressive and coupled with the possibility of these persons having seen at least Budhsen on October 21, 1967 outside the, jail gates  The case against the appellant is entirely based on circumstantial evidence, and there is no direct evidence that he administered a poison . The High Court must be regarded as the final court in  The High Court does not seem to have correctly appreciated the evidentiary value of these parades . It seems to have proceeded on the erroneous legal assumption that it is a substantive piece of evidence