 The High Courts have power to issue writs of certiorari for quashing the decisions of Election Tribunals, notwithstanding that they become functus officio after pronouncing the  Election Tribunals are subject to the superintendence of the High Courts under Art. 227 of the Constitution . While in a certiorari under . 226 the High Court can only  Voters for the House of the People in polling stations Nos. 316 and 317 in Sobhapur were given ballot papers with brown bar intended for the State Assembly . The Election Commission had decided  Election Tribunal held by a majority that Rule 47(1)(c) was mandatory, and that the 301 ballot papers found in the box of the first respondent bearing the wrong mark should not  The petition was dismissed in accordance with the majority opinion . The learned Judges, however, granted a certificate under article 132(1), and that is how this appeal comes before this Court .  The writ of certiorari is a high prerogative writ issued by the Court of the King's Bench or Chancery to inferior courts or tribunals in the exercise of  In Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume 14 at page 123 the nature of a writ of certiorari for quashing is stated: "It is not a proceeding against the tribunal  A writ of prohibition and a writ of certiorari have for their object the restraining of inferior courts from exceeding their jurisdiction . But there is one fundamental distinction between the two writs,  A writ of prohibition quashing a conviction by a court martial is inapplicable to a writ of certiorari to quash . The High Court had refused applications for the issue  The High Courts have power under article 226 to issue writs of certiorari for quashing the decisions of Election Tribunals, notwithstanding that they become functus officio after  Walsall Overseers v London and North Western Ry. Co. (1) and Rex vNat Bell Liquors Ld. (2) were quoted in support of this view  No error could be said to be apparent on the face of the record if it was not self-evident . This test might afford a satisfactory basis for decision in the majority of cases  Rule 47(1) relates to a ballot paper which "bears any mark or writing by which the elector can be identified" The secrecy of voting being of the essence of an election  Election Commission did not decide in terms of Rule 28 that the ballot paper for election to the House of the People should bear a brown bar . The green bar continued to be the prescribed mark  Mr. Chatterjee argued that Rule 47 was not the only rule that had been broken . He argued that owing to the mistake of the polling officer wrong ballot papers had been issued,  Returning Officer has to automatically reject certain classes of votes for not being in conformity with the rules . In other cases, the rejection will depend on his decision whether the conditions for their acceptance have  Court in a petition to set aside the election held on an examination of the ballot paper that the official stamp had been applied, though imperfectly, and that it should have been accepted .