 The Provident Fund Act 1952 as originally enacted provided for the institution of compulsory provident fund for employees in factories and other establishments . Under s. 4 of the Act the Central Government framed  Per Krishna Iyer, J. J. Dismissed the writ petition to this Court . Said that s. 14B of the Act is violative of Art. 14 of the  The section is not bad, though action under the section can be challenged in writ jurisdiction when infirmities which attract such jurisdiction vitiate the order . The argument that absent detailed guidelines  Section 14B of the [Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952] was enacted to deter the employers and to thwart them from making defaults in carrying out their statutory  Each word, phrase or sentence must be considered in the light of the general purpose of the Act itself . The word "damages" in section 14B is related to the word "  KRISHNA IYER, J.- wrote that the power of the Government or one of the highest officers will not be abused . The fact that no appeal has been provided for "  The 'speaking order' of the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Chandigarh, of a heavy penalty of Rs. 94,996.80 by way of damages under Sec.  Provident Fund Commissioner may recover from the employer such damages, not exceeding the amount of arrear, as it thinks fit to impose . Within the limit of 100%, the enforcing agency  An appeal is a desirable corrective but not an indispensable imperative . While its presence is an extra check on wayward orders its absence is not a sure index of arbitrary potential . The maximum harm  The Commissioner cannot go beyond 100% of the amount defaulted . He must not exceed the interest it would have carried during the period of delay . This is not uncommon in taxing laws to  There is great social injury to the scheme when employers default in numbers . Compensation for the injury suffered by the default is more than the narrow computation of interest on the contribution . This is not  The Writ Petition deserves to be dismissed with costs . The employees would, of course, get damages commensurate with their loss but the remaining amount should go to augment the Fund constituted under  The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner found that the petitioners were 'habitual defaulters' and had, therefore, to be severely dealt with, and should be visited with the maximum  The Provident Fund Act, 1952 as originally enacted, provides for the institution of compulsory provident funds for employees in factories and other 81 establishments . It applies to every establishment which is a  Parliament inserted s. 14B for recovery of damages on the amount of arrears . Employers could delay payment of Provident Fund dues without any additional financial liability . The word '  The power of the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner to impose damages under s. 14B is a quasi-judicial function . It must be exercised after notice to the defaulter and after  The word 'damages' in s. 14B is different from penalty or fine and is intended to compensate the loss to the beneficiaries of the Scheme . It has only the ordinary legal  The word 'damages' in s.14B must, in the context in which it appears, means penal damages i.e. a penalty and not merely actual loss to the  The provision for imposition of damages at twenty-five per cent of the amount of arrear, however, did not prove to be effective . The amount of Provident Fund arre