 The Hindi Sahitya Sammelan raised objections to the grant of a permit for the constructions of a cinema theatre as in its view a theatre and a research cum study center can  A notice dated March 6. 1975 under section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act was served upon the petitioner inviting him to file his objections, if any . The petitioner filed detailed objections on March  It is not correct assume that the sole purpose behind publication of . publication of substance of . notification in locality, as required secondly in section 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act is  The authority of the Sammelan may honestly believe that the existence of a cinema theatre may have the pernicious tendency to vitiate the educational and cultural environment of the institution .  Hindi Sahitya Sammelan 'Sammelan' for whose benefit the land was sought to be acquired was initially formed as a voluntary organisation in 1910 and on January 8,  Allahabad Municipal Board agreed to hand over the land and building in which a municipal school was located, situated at Kamta Prasad Kakkar Road adjacent to the Central office and Press  The High Court struck down the notification holding that in order to be a valid notification under Sec. 4(1) it has to be published or notified for general information in the Official Gazette  The High Court was right in holding that in respect of the later notification and corrigendum, no notice was published in the locality and latter part of Sec. 4(1) was  Subba Rao, CJ speaking for the court observed that 'the statutory intention is clear, namely, that the giving of public notice is mandatory' In Khub Chand and Ors.  The only purpose behind publication of a notice in the locality is to give opportunity to the person interested in the land to prefer objections under Sec. 5A which confers a valuable right .  The High Court upheld the decision of the High Court on the validity of the notification under Sec. 4(1) The petition for special leave filed by the petitioner, we grant special leave  The Sammelan had moved a petition for intervention which, it must be stated in fairness to Mr Nariman, was not objected in this Court . We made it abundantly clear that the  It is clear by the above circumstances that the land is not so much required by the institution as for the construction of the cinema house . Therefore, I would request you to consider the matter  The Sammelan had contemplated putting up a museum. That again is the purpose for- which the land involved in this appeal is sought to be acquired at the instance of the Sammel  The High Court disposed of the contention by an over- simplification of this tangled web of facts without making the least attempt at unearthing the real motives of the Sammelan .  The District Magistrate was chagrined to swallow the bitter pill that he was forced to acquire land even though he was personally convinced there was no need but a pretence . The