 The dispute between the respondent company and its workmen was voluntarily referred to arbitration by their agreement dated December 3, 1959, under s. 10A of the [Industrial Disputes Act  Civil Appeals Nos. 182 and 183/1962 have 627 been filed against the award pronounced by Mr. D.V. Vyas on April 8, 1960, in a  Appellate jurisdiction of this Court under Art. 136(1) can be exercised even against an interlocutory order or decision . Appeal must be from any 629 judgment, decree  A domestic Tribunal appointed in departmental proceedings, for 631 instance, or instituted by an industrial employer cannot claim to be a Tribunal under Art. 136(1) Purely administrative Trib  The majority decision of this Court was that the functions and duties of the Industrial Tribunal are very much like those of a body discharging judicial functions . In the opinion of the learned judge,  Section 2 (b) which defines an award was amended by the addition of the words "it includes an arbitration award made under section 10A" An arbitration award has now become an award  An award made by an arbitrator under s. 10A becomes a decree subject to the provisions of ss. 15, 16, 17 and 30 of the Arbitration Act, and thus  The argument that a writ may lie against an award made by an arbitrator appointed under s. 10A does not materially assist the appellants' case that the arbitrator in question is  The power to decide the dispute between the parties who appoint him is derived by him from the agreement of the parties and from no other source . A statutory Tribunal is appointed under the relevant provisions  It is not possible to introduce the Government at any stage of operation of s. 10A (1) The parties can agree to refer their dispute to the Labour Court, Tribunal or National  Section 10A (5) suggests that the proceedings contemplated by s. 10A are arbitration proceedings to which, but for sub-s. (5), the Arbitration Act would have  The preliminary objection raised by the respondents in the appeals before us must be upheld and the appeals dismissed on the ground that they are incompetent under Article 136. The appellants to pay the costs