 The action of the Income Tax Officer was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant . The three figures were the figures carried over from the previous year for the . assessment year of 1968-69  An unabsorbed depreciation is treated as a genus totally different from a "loss", there is no statutory provision that will permit that it can be set off against income from other heads .  Unabsorbed losses and unabsorbed depreciation are to be carried forward to future years to be set off against future income . There is a difference between the two in the case of assessment  The firm is entitled to carry forward the unabsorbed depreciation computed for the assessment year 1967-68 and have it set off in its assessment for the . assessment year 1968-69 .  The two appeals relate to the assessment years 1967- 68 and 1968-69 for which the relevant previous years were the Saka years 2022 and 2023 respectively . The Income Tax Officer (  The petition of appeal gives a few facts which may be sufficient to dispose of the appeal . For this assessment year, the assessee filed a return on 30/6/67 showing a  The Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (the 1922 Act) finds specific mention in S. 70 of the 1961 Act . The Act envisages a mutual set off of the losses under  In 1956, the legislature decided that registered firms should also be made to pay a tax . This tax, called "firm's tax" was at rates lower than those applicable to un  The High Court was in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee . The correctness of this answer has not been challenged before us .  Unabsorbed losses and unabsorbed depreciation are to be carried forward to future years to be set off against future income . The issue is: how is it to be treated for purposes  S. 32(2) permits carry forward of the depreciation allowance "where full effect cannot be given to it" owing to there being no profits or gains chargeable for that previous year  The Act draws no distinction between the various allowances mentioned in section 10(2) of the Act . The only distinction is that while the other allowances may be outgoings, depreciation is  The words "no profits or gains chargeable for that year" are not confined to profits and gains derived 928 from the business whose income is being computed under s. 10, but  How this share is to be computed is set out in S.A.67 which may be set out here: "We do not see "unabsorbed depreciation" as antithetical  There is nothing anomalous or absurd in the statute providing for a dissection of the amount of loss for purposes of carry forward . Unabsorbed depreciation is a component element of the genus  S. 32(2) contemplates the situation where the unabsorbed depreciation in the hands of the firm is too large to get absorbed . What remains thereafter has obviously to be carried  An objection to this course is based on a mental imagery of the firm and its partners as altogether different assesses . We think this approach of viewing the two assessments in water-tight comp  The procedure envisaged by it will only enable a firm and the partners to set off the aggregate of the unabsorbed depreciation of the firm against the aggregate income of the firms and partners