 The High Court committed errors of law and fact on most vital points . It refused to draw interences from proved facts and has laid down legally erroneous principles on such vital and crucial evidence as  The High Court found that the confession was not voluntary and, therefore, should be excluded from scintillation . 'I he finding of the High Court on the question of motive is against  The High Court was wrong in laying down a universal rule of application that the evidence of identification is a weak type of evidence . The dead body had been found at the instance of one of  Asa Singh and his brother Bal Singh had entered into an agreement with Ram Lal P.W. 16 and his father Kaka Ram for purchasing 68 bighas of land at the  The prosecution alleged that Asa Singh and Boota Singh respondents were first cousins and were residents of Chhidarwala . The four respondents entered into a conspiracy to obtain money by means  The High Court does not appear to have made a correct approach to the present case inasmuch as it first tried to deal with the various circumstances which went to corroborate the confession and  The High Court conjectures that the respondent Boota Singh must have been sent to police custody after being produced before the Magistrate on 16th March at .30 p.m. The  Boota Singh said he was not at all in his senses when they brought him back to the lock-up, the court had departed . This statement was completely falsified by the circumstances  The High Court seems to have brushed aside the evidence or Ram Lal merely on the ground that there was no documentary evidence to show there was any negotiation between the parties before the sale-d  The report was not really the report of murder containing a detailed narration of the facts . By the time the report was lodged Harcharan Singh was not in possession of full facts, and  P.W. 20 Sri Ram Bajaj admits that he had arrested Boota Singh and Trilok Singh at Moonak and kept both of them look cd up at Police Station  The entire statement of the witness is untrustworthy and unconvincing . He has, therefore, a grudge with the Meerut C.I.D. and that  The Full Bench of the High Court examined the matter and held that the propositions laid down in Dhakol Singh's case could not be regarded as a rule of law and had been far  The High Court relied on a decision of this Court in Budh Sen & Anr. v. State of U.P. (supra) We feel that the High Court has  Boota Singh made a clear admission that he, Asa Singh and Lal Singh and others had tea at the hotel in Doiwala . The finding of the High Court on this point  The witness tried to explain in court that counsel for the respondent dictated the report to the reader who took down the same and thereafter he affixed his signature . It is, therefore, clear  The High Court was clearly in error in rejecting the evidence of the witness on the grounds that it did. This statement is palpably absurd and has been made for the first time in Court  The prosecution alleged that the signature made by Lt. K. S. Chimni was actually made by the respondent Boota Singh himself, but as his signatures were not sent to the expert  The High Court said that Boota Singh had deliberately changed the number plate from UPS 6679 to UPM 3236 to conceal the identity of the car . This, therefore, fully corrobor  The respondent Boota Singh has clearly stated in his confession that after going to Bombay he contacted a broker for negotiating the sale of the car . When the deal was settled the respondent received an  Two independent witnesses from Bombay proved Boota Singh contacted them for sale of the car and had shown the car to them . But as there was some discrepancy in the chassis number 328 and the  The prosecution has been able to establish that the car seized by the Bombay Police was the one which the accused Boota Singh along with his companions hired from M/s Punjab Taxi service .  The High Court is unable to agree with the High Court that the manner in which the deceased is said to have been assaulted according to the confessional statement has not been proved by the prosecution  There is no evidence to show that Raghubir Singh was present at Ambala at the time when Lal Singh was murdered . The High Court found that the High Court has committed errors  The High Court has overlooked important circumstances which fully proved the case . Even regarding the confession it has not made a correct approach which is first to take the confession and then to fin(l