 The appellant entered into a technical collaboration agreement with the Indian Company effective from Nov. 1, 1957 . In 1956 it introduced an anti-hystamin drug in the American market under the  On August 18, 1958, the appellant filed an application under 8.14(1) of the [Trade Marks Act 1940], in Form TM-I for registration of the trade mark  The first respondent applied for amendment of the Rectification Application by substituting the submissions in support of the grounds taken earlier . The submissions so substituted were :. That the trade mark 'D  The words "proposed to be used" in the 'PUSSY GALORE' Trade marks Case [1967] R.C.P.C., R.G.  Appeal No.165 of 1968 filed by the appellant before the division Bench is allowed with costs and the judgment and order of the Single Judge of the High Court are reversed ant set aside .  The burden of proving that the facts which bring into play cl.(a) or cl.(b), as the case may be, is on the person who seeks to have the trade mark  After the expiry of seven years from the date of the registration, a trade mark is to be valid in all respects except in the three cases set out in 8.32 . The  The appellant had acquired a substantial shareholding to the extent of 40 percent the Indian Company . In 1956 the appellant introduced 'Dristan' tablets in the American market and got the trade  The appellant's case would fall to the ground because then at the date of its application for registration of the said trade mark, its intention would be not to use it itself but to use  The High Court was unduly impressed by Pussy Galore Trade mark case and unnecessarily attached great importance to it . The relevant provisions relating to registered users IN the English Act and IN the  Section 29(1) of the English Act provides that an application for registration of a trade mark can be accompanied by an application . If the tribunal is satisfied that the proprietor of the  Under the 1958 Act an application for registering a registered user can only be made after a trade mark is registered . It is not necessary that the appellant should have got the trade mark registered with  Aston v Harlee Manufacturing company v. Aston v. Harlee manufacturing company . Appeal has been filed pursuant to a certificate granted by the Calcutta High Court against its judgment and order  The High Court asked whether a proprietor 285 of a trade mark who intends to use it solely by a registered user is entitled to registration of his trade mark, under Sec. 18 of  Geoffrey Manners has access to and use of lands and buildings and has the experience, facilities, equipment and personnel needed or desired for successful production, sale and distribution of the aforementioned products in  Agreement sat out in detail the various services which were to be rendered by the Appellant to the Indian Company . Agreement was to continue in force for an indefinite period of time subject to  The Indian Company applied on September 23, 1960, to the Central Government under section 11 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, for a licence to manufacture the tablets '  On October 22, 1961, the 'DRISTAN' tablets were first marketed in India by Indian Company . On March 6, 1962, a joint application in Form TM-28 was  The first legislation in India relating to trade marks was the [Trade Marks Act, 1940] (Amt No. V of 1940), hereinafter referred to as the 1940 Act .  The Appellant's trade mark 'DISTAN' had been registered under the 194 Act, it became part of Part A of the Register of Trade Marks under the 1958 Act .  A similar provisions existed in section 16 of the 1940 Act. to notice of opposition to the registration of the trade mark 'DRISTAN' was ever lodged by anyone . under section 16  No application for the registration of a trade mark in respect of any goods shall be refused, nor shall permission for such registration be withheld, on the ground only that it appears that the applicant  The agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks . Section 49 prescribes the procedure for registration of a registered user and is in  Rule 85 is in the following terms : 'Consideration by the Central Government' The Central Government, on receipt of an application for registration as registered user forwarded to it by the Registrar,  The submissions so substituted were (i) That the said trade mark 'DRISTAN' was not distinctive mark and nor was not regenerable trade mark under Sec.6 of the Trade  Division Bench rejected contention that the trade mark 'DRISTAN' was deceptively and confusingly similar to BISTAN . Division Bench dismissed the Appellant's further appeal .  First Respondent's Application for Rectification was stated to be made under section 46 and 56 of the 1958 Act and Rule 94 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Rules, 1959 . The  Section 46(1) provides for two cases in which a registered trade mark may be taken off the Register . There are two conditions to be satisfied before clause (a) can become applicable  A trade mark is a mark used or proposed to be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and  A registered mark is assignable and transmissible either with or without goodwill of the business concerned . Under section 38 an unregistered trade mark is not assignable or transmissible except in the  The intention to use a trade mark sought to be registered must be, therefore, genuine and real . It is a question of fact and degree in ever case whether a sufficient trade connection exists  Appellant No.1 was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment under Rule 81(4) of the Defence of India Rules, 1939, relating to the control of prices . The Judicial Committee  Dr. Gauri Shankar relied upon the definition of 'Licensed Products' given in the said agreement . The division of the Appellant, which at all relevant times carried on  The facts set out above clearly show that each of the is an integral link in a chain and that they cannot be divided into three separate periods as contended by Dr.Gauri Shankar  Dr. Gauri Shankar on behalf of the First Respondent submitted that both under the 1940 Act and the 1958 Act a registered user is not the same person as the proprietor of  Clause (a) of section 46(1) refers to "bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it (that is, the trade mark) should be  The High Court relied heavily upon the PUSSY GALORE' Trade Mark Case . The English Act of 1938 introduced a system of official approval for licences to use a trade mark .  In the 'PUSSY GALORE' Trade mark Case a company filed forty- six applications for registering different trade marks in respect of goods falling under seventeen different classes . All the  The application was not accompanied by application to register users as specified in section 29(1)(b). Mr Bevan stated that it was a convenient commercial practice to operate through registered users but  The English Act creates two legal fictions relating to registered users in the English Act and in the 1958 Act . The 1958 Act, however, contains only one fiction relating to the permitted use  An application for registration of a trade mark as also an application for registering a registered user are to be made to the Registrar and it is the Registrar who has to grant both of them .  The 'PUSSY GALORE' Trade Mark Case was a decision of the Board of Trade and not of any English Court . The High Court also took the assistance of the Sh  'PUSSY GALORE' Trade Mark Case could easily have been decided on the ground that the applications for registration made therein, if granted, would amount to trafficking in trade marks  Appellant cannot be said to have practised any deception in stating in its application that it intended to use 340 the trade mark itself . The application for registering the Indian Company as the  Appeal No. 61 of 1965 filed by the First Respondent before the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court is dismissed with costs and the order passed by him is reversed and