 Three appeals stem from two related incidents that took place on November 11. 1985 in village Laxmipur Taufir Bind Toli and its neighbourhood within the jurisdiction of Munger  The 5th Court recorded an order to the effect that to avoid all sorts of infirmities and irregularities and for redressal of the grievance of the accused in general the charges against all  The High Court heard the reference made by the trial Court under Sec- tion 366 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ('Code' for short) and disposed of all of them through  The High Court had exercised the power of transfer in the context of the pe- tition filed by some of the accused from jail complaining that they could not be accommodated in the Court  The learned Judges, expressing the majority view, observed that Section 7(1) of the 1952 Act created a condition which was sine qua non for the trial of offences under Section  The Code of 1898 was repealed and replaced by the Code Section 350 was renumbered as 326 without any textual change . However, later on by the Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act  The case of Payare Lal (supra) which was decided when Sec. 350 was operating in the field without its amendment of 1955 has no relevance here . In that case, Pay  The case fell within the first category mentioned by the Privy Council, being 239 one of want of competency and not of irregularity . With the above findings the Court sent the case  Section 217 of the Code provides that whenever a charge is altered or added to by the Court after the commencement of the trial the prosecutor and the accused shall be allowed to recall or to summon  A few years ago a new district known as Khagaria District was carved out of the old Munger district . After bifurcation village Mathur and village Chukti fell  Chandradeo Singh, Bijay Singh, Sadhu Singh and Raje Sao accosted them and requested not to resort to violence . However, the Yadavs did not  The trial Court concluded that the prosecution succeeded in proving that land measuring about 30 bighas situated in Mouza Bind Diara Harin Mar was settled by the above land owners in favour  Both the Courts below recounted their evidence and after exhaustive evaluation thereof found the same consistent . On the basis of the prosecution had succeeded in proving that when the mob was engaged in committing loot and  P.W. 96 had reached the village Laxmipur Bind Toli in the night of 11.11.1985 to investigate into the two cases registered over the incident that  The use by a witness while he is giving evidence of a statement made by him to the police raises different considerations . The Magistrate's reason for doing so is too broadly stated, for  The too sophisticated approaches familiar in courts based on unreal assumptions about human conduct cannot obviously be applied to those given to the lethargic ways of our villages . Mr. Jethmalani  In Baladin's case (supra) was explained by a four Judge Bench of this Court in Masalti v. State of UP.I.R. 1965 S.C  Section 149 IPC makes every member of an unlawful assembly at the time of committing of the offence guilty of that offence . Everyone must be taken to have intended the probable and natural results of  In the case in hand, Do doubt the prosecution witnesses claiming to have seen the occurrence have named all the appellants and the approver has even named those acquitted by the High Court .