 An allegation regarding the commission of a corrupt practice at an election is a very serious matter not only for the candidate but for the public at large as it relates to the purity of the electoral  The High Court was right in holding that there was no sufficient evidence to substantiate the allegation that the Police officer went to the place of meeting at the appellant's instance to assist him in  The High Court erred in preferring the statements of the petitioner's witnesses to the testimony of the Bishop . The argument that the appellant was driven by the prospect of defeat to seek assistance of  K. M. Mani's election from the Palai constituency (No. 94) of Legislative Assembly was declared void . The High Court held that a corrupt practice was committed under sub  The High Court found that the election petition was maintainable and that Finding has not been challenged before us except in regard to the vagueness of the pleading in paragraph 5 of the election  Virendra Kumar Saklecha v. Jagjiwan and others('). We find that the only objection which was taken in the written statement (paragraph 11) was that the "  The proper way to examine a controversy like this is to consider the substance of the allegation and not its mere form . The mere fact that the allegation regarding addressing the meeting and exhorting the  Joseph Thomas's statement that he was sent on duty, by a written order, to Cannanore, that he took a half day's casual leave on March 12, 1977 on return  An allegation regarding the commission of a corrupt practice at an election is 'I very serious matter not only for the candidate but for the public at large as it relates to the purity of the  It would have been open to objection if Joseph Thomas had stated at the meeting that it was necessary for the benefit of the Christian community that persons like Mani should win and become a Minister  Joseph Chovvathukunnel (P.W. 4) was a Vicar of the Ramapuram Forane Church . Father Joseph Pallikkaparambil  There is no direct evidence to prove that Joseph Thomas went to attend the meeting and spoke there at the instance of the appellant . The trial court has arrived at a decision against the appellant on  The election petitioner has examined a number of other witnesses about what transpired at the meeting, but none of them has stated that the appellant was present there . Even Cherian J. Kapp  The election petitioner must exclude every hypothesis except that of guilt on the part of the returned candidate or his election agent, and the trial court erred in basing its finding on a mere