 The Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisement) Act, 1954, was the prevention of self medication and self-treatment by prohibiting instruments which may be used to advocate the  The scope and object of the Act its true nature and character was not interference with the right of speech but it dealt with trade and business . The definition of " advertisement " which included labels  The Act was passed on April 30, 1954, came into force on April 1, 1955 . Petitioners in Writ Petition No. 81 of 1959, the Hamdard Dawakhana  The main object and purpose of the Act is to prevent people from self medicating with regard to various serious diseases . The petitioners prayed for a declaration that the Act and the Rules made  The doctrine of pith and substance was created for the purpose of determining the legislative competence of a legislature to enact a law . It has been used in other contexts in some cases in some  In 1927 a resolution was adopted by then Council of State recommending to the Central and Provincial Governments to take immediate measures to control the indiscriminate use of medical drugs and for standardisation of the  The Bhatia Committee was set up in pursuance to a resolution No. CI-1(12/52 dated February 14, 1953, and between March 1953 and end of that  The preamble shows that the object of the Act was to control the advertisement of drugs in certain cases, i.e., diseases and to prohibit advertisements relating to remedies pretending to have  The object truly, and properly understood is to prevent self-medication or treatment by prohibiting instruments which may be used to advocate the same or which tend to spread the evil . Mr.  An advertisement is no doubt a form of speech but its true character is reflected by the object for the promotion of which it is employed . Mr. Munshi relied on Express Newspapers (  An advertisement commending drugs and substances as appropriate cure for certain diseases is not an exercise of the right of freedom of speech . The Court said that activities undertaken with a view to earning profits  It is not the form or incidental infringement that determines the constitutionality of a, statute in reference to the rights guaranteed in Art. 19(1), but the reality and substance of the  It is not a proper method of judging the reasonableness of the restrictions to compare every section of the Act with the corresponding English Act and then to hold it unreasonable merely because the corresponding  Mr. Chatterjee contended that the restriction was excessive because the mention of the name of a disease and the suggestion of a cure for that could (1) [[1950] S.  The question is in which compartment does the power given in the Act fall . Delegation should not be so indefinite as to amount to an abdication of the legislative function-Sch  The power of specifying diseases and conditions as given in s. 3(d) must therefore be held to be going beyond permissible boundaries (1) (1945) L.R. 72  Petitioners' challenge to the constitutionality of the Act is partially successful . The parties must pay their own costs .