 A primary health centre was inaugurated in a village in November 1958 in accordance with the resolution of the Block Planning and Development Committee . One of the conditions which the village had to comply with  The appellant was the president of the Panchayat Samithi of the first village . He had been prejudiced by the impugned order and his petition under Art. 226  Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 7. 1964 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Writ Appeal No. 8 of 1964 . The High Court refused to exercise its  On July 11, 1959, the said Committee passed two resolutions, among others. Under resolution 3 it recorded with appreciation the donation of 50 cents of land by Achyutharamaiah  Panchayat Samithi held its meeting and resolved that the Primary Health Centre should be permanently located at Dharmajigudem . On January 23, 1961, the Rules  With the consent of the representatives of the village of Dharmaji- gudem, the Block Planning and Development Committee resolved to shift the Primary Health Centre from Dharmajigud  The Calcutta Gas Company (Proprietary) Ltd. v. The State of West Bengal(1), dealing with the question of locus standi of the appellant in that  The petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution at his instance is, therefore, maintainable . We have no hesitation to hold that the appellant had the right to maintain the application under Art  The Rules deprive the Panchayat Samithi of the power to select a place for establishing a Primary Health Centre and make it a re- commendatory body with final powers in  The Panchayat Samithi, Chintalapudi, at its meeting held on 29-5-61 resolved to shift the Primary Health Centre permanently to Lingapal  The Panchayat Samithi Chintala- pudi, it its meeting held on May 29, 1961, resolved to shift the Primary Health Centre permanently to Lingapal  An analysis of the various orders passed by the Panchayat Samithi and the Government discloses, as we have already indicated, that the Primary Health Centre was never permanently located  The High Court, therefore, in our view, rightly refused to exercise its extraordinary discretionary power in the circumstances of the case . In the result, the appeal is dismissed, but, in