 P. Shiv Shankar, Minister of Law, Justice and Company Affairs at the relevant time, delivered a speech at a meeting of the Bar Council of Hyderabad . Petition alleged that in  Any criticism about the judicial system or the Judges which erodes faith in the objective approach of Judges and brings administration of justice into ridicule must be prevented . The contempt of Court proceedings arise out  Shri P. Shiv Shankar was making a study of the attitude of this Court, it appears . It was stated that the Supreme Court was composed of the element from the elite class  The question is whether there is a duty cast upon the Attorney General or the Solicitor General to consider the question of granting consent in terms of clause (b) of section 15(  The petition failed and the application of Shri Trivedi was accordingly disposed of . The impugned comments were made by the respondent No. 1 in the course of his key note  The petition raised certain questions of general importance for consideration to evolve a proper procedure for future guidance in these matters . The form of a criminal miscellaneous petition styling the informant as the petitioner and  The Attorney General, the Solicitor General and Shri Ramoji Rao, Editor of "Newstime" were stated to be impleaded in order that they might get an  The petitioner should not have added to the petition respondents other than the person, alleged to be guilty of Contempt of Court, and their names should be deleted from the array of the Parties  Shri P. Shiv Shankar, the Hon'ble Minister for Law, Justice and Company Affairs delivered a speech before a meeting of the Bar Council of Hyderabad on 28th November  An application for initiation of contempt entitled "Information under Section 15(1)(a) and (b) of the Act read with Explanation (19 and Rule 3(a), (  Shri R.N. Trivedi, an advocate of 25 years' standing at the Bar, claimed the right to be impleaded as a party in the contempt petition .  By a majority judgment of the High Court the appellant was convicted for contempt of court and fined Rs.1000 or simple imprisonment for one month . He contended that the law of contempt must be  Contempt of Court by newspaper article criticising Judges of the Court came up for consideration in the case of Re: Shri S. Mulgaokar . Indian Express article entitled "  The Fourth Estate should be given free play within responsible limits even when the focus of its critical attention is the court, including the highest court . Judges should not be hypersensitive even where distortions  There has been an erosion of faith in the dignity of the court and in the majesty of law . The procedural wrangle is eroding the faith in our justice system . The perception of  Justice Cardozo says that he remembers when the statement made aroused a storm of criticism . It betrayed ignorance, he said, of the nature of the judicial process . According to Cardozo,  There is no assurance that the rule of the majority will be the expression of perfect reason when embodied in constitution or in statute . The tide rises and falls, but the sands of error crumble  Conscientious Group approached this Court for contempt alleging that the conduct of Mohammed Yunus in making certain adverse comments about the Judges who delivered the judgment of this Court in Civil Appeal No. 8  The inter-action of the decisions of this Court and the Constitutional amendments have been viewed by the Minister in his speech, but that is nothing new . This by itself does not affect the  The only course open to a citizen for initiating proceedings for contempt is to move for consent in writing of the Attorney General or the Solicitor General . Mohammed Yunus' case (sup  Vassiliades v. Vassilades and another petition was brought before the Supreme Court in 1987 . Shri Shiv Shankar wrote to the Attorney General and the Solicitor  The question is whether there was a duty cast upon the Attorney General or the Solicitor General to consider the question of granting consent in terms of clause (b) of section 15(  A scurrilous attack on a judge in respect of a judgment or past conduct has in our country the inevitable effect of undermining the confidence of the public in the Judiciary . A sc  Rules which provide for the manner in which proceedings for Contempt of Court should be taken continue to apply even after the enactment of the [Contempt of Courts Act, 1971]. Therefore cogn  The statute gives a right to a suitor to move the Court in one of the contingencies for contempt or bring to the notice of the Court the contempt with the advice and assistance of  The House of Lords was reversing the decision of the Court of Appeal in the celebrated case of Gouriet v. Union of Post office Workers, [1978] Appeal Cases 435 .  Some 'savoury' passages therefrom have been highlighted in a section of the Press, the speech was made before an audience comprising essentially of lawyers, jurists and judges . The  The powers of the Supreme Court and High Court in this regard have been classified in the [Contempt of Courts Act, 1971]. This Act defines "contempt of court" and class  Supreme Court (Contempt of Court) Rules envisage a petition only where the Attorney General or any other person, with his written consent, moves the Court . The form of a criminal  A petition is the proper form of approach to the court under rule 3(a), I have indicated earlier the proper title to such a petition . The only persons who can be respondents in  The petition can be revived by the petitioner after obtaining the consent of the Solicitor General under Rule 3(c). The petition for contempt was, threfore, dismissed . The  The role of the Attorney General/Solicitor General is more akin to that of an amicus curiae to assist the court in an administrative matter rather than a quasi-judicial role  The Attorney General/Solicitor General declined to exercise his functions under Section 15 of the Contempt of the Courts Act in view of the allegations of lack of impartiality and independence .  The petition should be dismissed, says U.S.L.A. to initiate proceedings against respondent No. 1 .