 1965 SC 895; 1965 (1) SCR 970 (30 October 1964) The High Court dismissed the petition but granted a certificate under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India .  A. 135(3) applied to the case 971 and the objection that the tax was not validly imposed could not succeed . Kamaraja Nadar v. Kunju The  The appeal is an appeal on a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court . The appellant is a public limited company and owns two sugar factories in the city of Rampur . The Municipal  The appellant objected to the payment of water tax demanded from it, and one of its objections was that it was exempt under S. 129 (a), as there was no standpipe or  Article 320(3) (c) provides for consultation with the Public Service Commission on all disciplinary matters affecting a person serving under the Government of India . The language of the Article is mandatory  S. 131(3) provides for publication of proposals and draft rules along with a notice inviting objections to the proposals or the draft rules so published within a fortnight from the publication of the  The manner of publication provided by s. 94(3) appears to be directory and so long as it is substantially complied with that would be enough for the purpose of providing tax-payers  S. 94(3) requires that the publication must be made in a local paper and that local paper must be one published in Hindi . But the actual publication of the resolution in the  Imposition of the tax was challenged on the ground that the Board did not take into consideration the objections filed . The Court held that sub-s. (8) of s. 67  J. Hidayatullah J. J. dismisses appeal over failure to publish notice in strict compliance with the provisions of s. 94(3) of the U.P.  Section 94(3) of the U.S. Act provides: "A notification of the imposition of a tax under subsection (2) shall be conclusive proof that the tax has been  The same purpose cannot be achieved by proclaiming by beat of drum or distributing hand-bills or publishing a notice in a newspaper not circulating locally. There is no option there because if the  The provisions of s. 94(3) are clearly directory inasmuch as a deviation from the mode of publication prescribed therein is contemplated by it . It is immaterial to consider whether