 1975 AIR 1975 SC 1121; 1975 SCR 254; 1975 (1) SCC 737 (21 January 1975) CHANDRACHUD, Y.V. (CJ  Jage Ram and Ors. v. State of Haryana & Ors., held that the auctions for granting the right to sell country liquor for the year 1968-69 had  The demand made by the Government for payment of large sums of money by hoteliers and bar-keepers who supply foreign liquor for consumption on their premises is arbitrary, without the authority of law  There is no fundamental right to do trade or business in intoxicants . The State, under its regulatory powers, has the right to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intox  The Financial Commissioner, under s. 34 of the Act read with rule 59(d), has the power to direct that licences may be granted on payment of such consideration as he may by  The appeals arise out of a common judgment dated November 18, 1968 rendered by the High Court in a batch of 152 writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution . Those petitions were filed by  The High Court took the view that the licence fee realised through the medium of auctions was in the nature of "still-head duty" and that licences could not be called upon by the  The Kailash Cinema Chowk Vend was auctioned on the basis of the fixed quota of 50,506 proof liters which is equivalent to 1,34,685 bottles per year  The High Court held that licences granted for regulating trade in intoxicating liquors stand in a class by themselves and that the consideration which governs licence fees charged 'in return for services rendered cannot  In Lekhraj Satramdas Lalvani v. Deputy Custodian-cum- Managing Officer & Ors., the appellant who was removed from the manager-ship  In Civil Appeals Nos. 485 and 2205 of 1969, filed respectively by Northern India Caterers (P) Ltd., and M/s. Green Hotel, Bar and Restaurant  The country liquor contractors offered incredibly high bids in the auctions which on the whole netted a revenue of rupees twentynine odd crores to the 'State Government'  The Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956, were framed by the Excise and Taxation Commi- ssioner on whom the powers of the Financial Commissioner are conferred by the  The Punjab Liquor Licence (First Amendment) Rules, 1968." On March 30, 1968 another notification was issued by the second respondent introducing a new rule-rule 27A was introduced  The recovery of large licence fees through public auctions was also attacked on the ground that the amount was not a fee but was in the nature of a tax and the same could not be recovered  The provisions of the regulation cannot be attacked merely on the ground that they create a monopoly . Properly speaking, there can be a 'monopoly' only when a trade which could be  Constitution Bench of this Court had to consider the question whether section 43 of the Bengal Excise Act, 1909 under which the licence of a liquor contractor was withdrawn, violated Articles 14 and 19  The Bombay Lotteries and Prize Competition Control and Tax Act, 1948, contravened the fundamental right guaranteed to them under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution . The  The highest bidder in an auction held for granting the exclusive privilege of selling country liquor filed a writ petition to challenge an order rejecting his bid . It was contended that the power retained by the  The discussion of the question whether a citizen has a fundamental right to do trade or business in liquor, proceeded in that case, avowedly from a desire to clear the confusion arising from  'fee' is not used in the Act or the Rules in the technical sense of the expression . By 'licence fee' or 'fixed fee' is meant the price or consideration  In Laxmi Kant Sahu v. Supdt. of Excise, Behrampur (C.A. 1415 of 1966 decided on 10--4-1967)  The demands for the payment of Fixed Fees made on vendors of ,Foreign Liquor holding licences in Forms L-3, L-4 and L-5 were challenged on the additional ground