 The appellant was convicted under Section 302 IPC and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of one G.M. It was alleged that when the deceased and his companion, PW-4  The High Court said the presence of PW1 at the scene of offence and at the time of occurrence was highly doubtful and the High Court committed an error in placing reliance on his testimony in  The High Court made no effort to scrutinise the evidence of these two witnesses even in regard to the factum of the incident . It refused to look into their evidence treating it as non  The acquittal of the accused does not create a legal bar against the conviction of the appellant with the aid of Section 34 or 149 IPC.  cannot be overlooked on that ground.  The conviction of the ap- pellant can be sustained with the aid of Section 34 or 149 as the case may be and it is safe to confirm the appellant's conviction with the  The First Information Report, Exh. P-3, was lodged by PW 4 Ramesh immediately after the incident and the same was recorded by the Investigating Officer PW 13 Ram  The trial court convicted the appellant under section 302 IPC and sentenced him to life imprisonment . The High Court dismissed the appeal against the said conviction .  There was a time gap between his examination-in-chief and his cross-examination the High Court was not justified in jumping to the conclusion that the accused party had succeeded in winning him  Evidence of two eye witnesses was challenged by the prosecution in cross-examination because they refused to name the accused in the dock as the assailants of the deceased . We are satisfied, beyond any  Two eyewitnesses, PWs 3 and 4, said the deceased and PW 4 came to the place of occurrence in the rickshaw pulled by PW 3 . On reaching the spot where  We have no hesitation in concluding that he had ample opportunity to identify the assailants of Gulab, his presence at the scene of occurrence is not unnat- ural nor his statement that  The mere fact that he was a witness to all the Panch- namas prepared by the investigating officer is by itself not sufficient to discard his evidence . In these circumstances we are not  The find of hunam blood on the weapon and the pant of the appellant lends coroboration to the testimony of PW 1 Komal Chand when he states that he had seen the app  In Brathi's case, Brathi was tried under section 302/34, IPC . Appellate Court acquitted the appellant's uncle but convicted the appellant of the same offence .  In Baikuntha Nath Chaudhury's case the evidence of two eye witnesses was to the effect that accused Nos. 1 and 2 had killed their brother with the active par  Krishna Govind Patil and three others were put up for trial for the murder of one Vishwanath . They were charged under section 302/34, IPC and separately charged under  The High Court on an appreciation of the evidence, came to a definite conclusion that accused Nos. 1, 3 and 4 had not participated in the commission of the crime . We are,