 The English poet William Ernest Henley wrote: "I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul" Bombay High Court in Maruti Shripati Dubal  The Bombay view was dissented to; the reasons of which also we shall advert to later . Andhra Pradesh High Court in Chenna Jagadeeswar v. State of A.  The relationship between suicide and euthanasia has come to be highlighted in a decision of the Supreme Court of Nevada (one of the States of United States of America) in Mckay v  Bombay High Court held Section 309 as violation of Article 14 mainly because of two reasons . Section 309 treats all attempts to commit suicide by the same measure without referring to the circumstances in which attempts  The Bombay High Court's decision2 led some thinkers to express their own views . The broad points of their objection/criticism were these: (1) suicide is an act against religion  The Constitution Bench of this Court in Unnikrishnan v. State of A.p.7 has virtually answered this question . Article 21 has enough of positive content in it, the  The word 'life' in Article 21 means right to live with human dignity . It takes within its fold "some of the finer graces of human civilization, which makes life worth living  According to Indian philosophy that which is born must die, death is the only certain thing in life . If a person has a right to live, question is whether he has right not to  Professor Stone's 1987 Jonas Robitscher Memorial Lecture in Law and Psychiatry in Harvard University stated that right to die inevitably leads to the right to commit suicide .  Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England (1765) emphasised on inviolability of common law, freedom of persons and property . After Benthamism and utilitarianism  A law which is cruel violates Article 21 of the Constitution, a la, Deena v Union of India . J.S. Mill had said in this connection in his famous tract On  The definition of 'crime' depends on the values of a given society . Crime can also be created or abolished with the passage of time . Crime is generated not as a result of one  New powers for the Crown Court to impose longer sentences for violent and sexual offences, if this is necessary to protect the public from serious harm . Reducing the maximum penalties for theft and burglary  Suicide Act, 1961 does not even regard attempt to suicide as an offence . Various social forces like the economy, religion and socioeconomic status are responsible for suicides . Suicide knows no barriers of race  The figures collected for the first half of the year were 664 deaths over a six-month period, which was higher than the total combined figures for Calcutta and Hyderabad in  Shri Tripathi stated that a man has moral right to terminate his life, because death is simply changing the old body into a new one by the process known as Kayakalp  Burton: "It is right to be law-abiding. But there may be times when it is not wrong to break the law. There are no easy rules or recipes to guide us  It would be too hazardous to make a bold and bald statement that commission of suicide is per se an immoral act . Those who demand virtue must do virtue and should see that others too do  It is the province of the statesman and not the lawyer, to discuss, and of the Legislature to determine what is best for the public good and to provide for it by proper enact  The magnitude and complexity of what is or is not public policy, would be apparent from bird's eye view of what has been stated regarding this at pp. 454 to 539 of  There is a gulf of difference between taking of one's own life and allowing the State to go in for genocide . The Law Commission of India in its 42nd Report (1971) recommended  At English Common Law suicide was taken as felony as much so that a person who had met his end after committing suicide was not allowed Christian burial, but would have to be done in a  The writ petitions stand allowed by declaring Section 309 of the Penal Code as unconstitutional and hence void . The proceedings in GR Case No. 177 of 1984 (State v. Patnaik)