 BHAGWATI, P.N. sought to set up a Hydrogenation plant for manufacture of Vanaspati and sought for confirmation that this industrial unit which it proposed  The appellant in the meantime had submitted an application dated 21st December 1968 for a formal order granting exemption from sales tax under section 4A of the U.P. Sales Tax Act .  No plea of waiver can be allowed to be raised unless it is pleaded and the factual foundation for it is laid in the pleadings . Waiver means abandonment of a right and it must  The parties need not be in any kind of legal relationship before the transaction from which the promissory estoppel take its origin . The doctrine would apply even where there is no pre  The doctrine of promissory estoppel has been used in the United States to reduce, if not to destroy, the prestige of consideration as an essential of valid contract . Even in  It is elementary that in a Republic governed by the rule of law, no one, a however high or low is above the law . Government cannot be heard to say that it is under  The Government cannot claim to be exempt from the liability to carry out the promise 'on some indefinite and undisclosed ground of necessity or expediency' The Court would have to balance the public interest  In order to attract the applicability of the doctrine of promissory estoppel, it is not necessary that the promisee, acting in reliance on the promise, should suffer any  Appeal by certificate raises a question of considerable importance in the field of public law . How far and to what extent is the State bound by the doctrine of promissory estoppel?  The Director of Industries replied by his letter dated 14th October, 1968 confirming that "there will be no sales tax for three years on the finished product of your proposed Vanaspati factory  The appellant made considerable progress in the setting up of the Vanaspati Factory but it seems that by the middle of May 1969 the State Government started having second thoughts on the question of exemption  An assurance was given by the 4th respondent to the appellant that the appellant would be exempt from payment of sales tax for a period of three years from the date of commencement of production .  The claim of the appellant to exemption could be sustained only on the doctrine of promissory estoppel . Waiver means abandonment of a right and it must be "an intentional act  There is the rule that ignorance of the law does not excuse, a maxim of very different scope and application . The basis of this doctrine is the inter-position of equity, the inter  The doctrine of promissory estoppel is limited in its operation to cases where the parties are already contractually bound and one of the parties induces the other to believe that the strict  Promissory estoppel is limited to cases where parties are already bound contractually one to the other . It applies whenever a representation is made, whether of fact or law, present  Promissory estoppel does not create new causes of action where none existed before . It only prevents a party from insisting upon his strict legal rights, when it would be unjust to  The High Trees' case was also referred to the doctrine of promissory estoppel in the High Tree's case . Lawyer says the English Courts have been reluctant to allow prom  The doctrine of consideration is too firmly fixed to be overthrown by a side wind . Lord Denning said in Combe v Combe that the principle of promissory estoppel  A man's word should be `as good as his bond' and his fellow-men should be able to rely on the one equally with the other . Promissory estoppel  The doctrine of promissory estoppel has displayed remarkable vigour and vitality in the hands of American Judges and it is still rapidly developing and expanding in the United States .  The concept survives as one of the distinctive features of our legal system . Judges have been affected by the thought that 'defences of that character' are 'breaches of faith towards the  The doctrine of promissory estoppel has been taken much further in the United States than in English and Commonwealth jurisdictions and in some States at least, it has been used to reduce  The House of Lords did not express any disapproval of the applicability of the doctrine of promissory estoppel against the Crown . Since 1966 there is an increasing trend towards applying the  The trend in the State courts, of late, has been strongly in favour of the application of the doctrine of promissory estoppel against the Government and public bodies "where interests  Bombay High Court v. The Secretary of State v. Municipal Corporation of Bombay v. . The case was decided by the Bombay High . The Government v. 678 was decided against the  The High Court of Bombay held that the Government had lost its right to assess the land in question by reason of the equity arising on the facts of the case in favour of the Municipal Corporation  The defence of executive necessity is of limited scope, Denning J., in Robertson v. Robertson v Minister of Pensions (supra) said that the Crown cannot escape by praying in  It is elementary that in a Republic governed by the rule of law, no one, howsoever high or low, is above the law . Every one is subject to the law as fully  Mere claim of change of policy would not be sufficient to exonerate the Government from the liability . The Court would not act on the mere ipse dixit of the Government,  Court refused to make a distinction between a private individual and a public body so far as the doctrine of promissory estoppel is concerned .  The 688 doctrine of promissory estoppel may be applied against the State even in its governmental, public or sovereign capacity where it is necessary to prevent fraud or manifest injustice .  The Government of U.P. issued a Notification dated 2nd April, 1969 superseding the earlier Notification dated 6th April, 1959 and imposing sales tax on the turnover in respect of  It does not countenance an absolute proposition that promissory estoppel can never be invoked against the government . The Court cited a passage from the High Court of Jammu & Kashmir  There is no authoritative decision of the Supreme Court which has departed from the law laid down in the Indo-Afghan Agencies case and the Century Spinning & Manufacturing Co's case .  There is in fact not a single case in England where detriment is insisted upon as a necessary ingredient 695 of promissory estoppel . If detriment were a necessary element, there  The Government was bound to exempt the appellant from payment of sales tax in respect of sales of vanaspati effected by it in the State of Uttar Pradesh for a period of three years .  The appellant collected from its customers an aggregate sum of Rs. 9,91,206.17 by way of sales tax at the rate of 3 1/2% for the period 1