 The Department of Telecommunications, Government of India, invited tenders from Indian companies with a view to license the operation of "Cellular Mobile Telephone Service" The last date for submission of tender  Bids received from 14 companies were opened and read out to the bidders, who were present . No marks were earmarked for any of the criteria .  The writ petitions of Adino Telecom and Kanazia Digital System were dismissed . The order granting licence to 8 parties (2 for each of the cities) was set aside on 26-  The second ground of attack is bias . BPL Systems and Projects, Mobile Telecom, Mobile Communications and Indian Cellular were approved by Mr Nair . The High Court concluded: "We do  BPL had not even filed an application before the competent authority yet its tender was considered and approved . Sterling Cellular had been rejected at various stages of consideration on the ground that there was criminal  BPL did not apply to SIA/FIPB but to Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Indian Telecom was excluded because it has the same foreign collaborator, namely Telecom Malaysia  The bid of Hutchison Max was rejected since it had filed an incomplete compliance report . The approach of the Department was hyper-technical, the High Court has chosen to accept the bid of  Vodaphone has been issued a licence as the cellular network operator under Section 7 of the U.K.Telecommunications Act of 1984 . It is known as a public telecommunication  Judicial review does not mean the court should take over the contracting powers . The parameters for interference in such matters would be (i) Mala fide (ii) Bias (iii)  Subhash Nair was not the decision-maker at all, he was one of the recommending authorities . Tata Cellular did not raise the allegation of bias in the High Court, it opposed  Union of India says the High Court was not justified in scrutinising the tendering process in such detail . Selection process was dictated by the, exigencies of the situation, it is  French Telecom is one of the foremost in the world in this technology. Dropping out of McCaw did not violate the bid conditions which were aimed at preventing a new and, therefore,  A tender must be unconditional and must conform to terms of obligation . The right to choose cannot be considered to be an arbitrary power . Government is the guardian of the finances of the State .  The remedy is intended to protect the individual against the abuse of power by a wide range of authorities, judicial, quasi-judicial, and, as would originally have been thought when I first  In 1768 Lord Mansfield expressed the relevant principles in two eloquent sentences . They gained greater value two centuries later . In 1947 the Court of Appeal confirmed a similar approach for the review  The power of the court to interfere in each case is not as an appellate authority to override a decision of the local authority, but as a judicial authority which is concerned, and concerned only  It is not the function of a judge to act as a superboard, or with the zeal of a pedantic schoolmaster substituting its judgment for that of the administrator . The alternative  A great deal of administrative law boils down to the scope of review problem, defining what degree of deference a court will accord to an agency's findings, conclusions, and choices, including  The current approach is best exemplified by R. v. Monopolies and Mergers Commission, ex p Argyll Group plc .  In Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line Rail Road Co.49, Justice Frankfurter said : 'A phrase begins life as a literary expression; its felicity leads to its lazy  There is no unfettered discretion in public law : A public authority possesses powers only to use them for public good . This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure which  The cut-off date for financial bid document was fixed as 17-8-1992 . To examine and evaluate the same a committee was set up . The markings came to be awarded on  International roaming in GSM is well-accepted technique . The rule of bias is founded on the well-known maxim nemo debet esse judex in propria causa  The test of 'reasonable suspicion' and 'real likelihood' of bias will generally lead to the same result . In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred it is enough for the court  It may, therefore, be improper for the clerk of the court to act as a solicitor for a party . Similarly, it may be unwise for a headmaster to sit in judgment  There must be circumstances from which a reasonable man would think it likely or probable that the justice, or chairman, as the case may be, would, or did, favour one side unfairly  In Manak Lal v. Dr Prem Chandl it was held thus: "But where pecuniary interest is not attributed but instead a bias is suggested, it often becomes necessary  The proper approach for the judge is not to look at his own mind and ask himself, however, honestly, 'Am I biased?' Justice Frankfurter in Public Utilities Commission of the  The Report of the Tender Evaluation Committee was made on 16-5-1992 . The offer of the four companies did not fully satisfy the criteria . Their cases were recommended to be considered  B.R. Nair was not a decision-maker at all . He was one of the recommending authorities . As Director General of Communication his involvement in the approval and selection of tender  Rental, financing, foreign exchange inflow/outflow, financial strength, experience and purchase plans were evaluated by the Tender Evaluation Committee (TEC) The evaluation report is placed  There is no other bidder who qualifies for giving the licence . Tata Cellular fulfils all the conditions but in bid document they have based their calculations on single operator concept . We may, if  The D.O. came to be issued in accordance with the note of 10-9-1992 dissolving the apex committee . It is not correct to contend, as urged by Mr  BPL Systems and Projects got two out of four cities . Only 707 Skycell got Madras . No fourth party got any city .  Talkland's sole function is to distribute radiotelephone services . Unlike SFR in France it neither sets up nor manages networks . In the U.K. these two activities have  Bharati's foreign collaborators included Talkland who was one of the largest service providers in U.K. The respondents say that Bharati was treated on this basis and not on the basis  It is common case between the parties that originally the foreign collaborators of BPL Systems and Projects were three, as mentioned above . So this is the position at the first stage, on 16  KPC cannot deviate from these guidelines at all in any situation but that any deviation, if made, should not result in arbitrariness or discrimination . The High Court observed thus :  The compliance statement, as submitted by Hutchison Max Telecom, is as under: "Compliance Statement This Company hereby agrees to fully comply with all Technical, Commercial and General conditions of T  Delhi H.C.has in recent judgment passed strictures on the deal . The Joint Venture has, therefore, been excluded from consideration . CBI report is, however, yet to be  Sterling Computers was left out of the tender for mobile telephone service in four cities . Telecom Commission: "There is a clear violation of the principle of natural justice"  Bharati Cellular's claim based on Talkland's experience is incorrect . The matter will have to be reconsidered on a factual basis as on 20-1-1992, in the light