 Hetal Parekh a young 18 year old school-goin- girl was raped and murdered on March 5, 1990 between 5.30 and 5.45 p.m  Hetal Thapa was a security guard at Anand Apartment between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m., March 5, 1990 . The appellant went to Flat No  Hetal Parekh was allegedly raped and murdered in the early hours of March 6, 1990 . Her father of the deceased, Nagardas PW 4, informed Bhawanip  The High Court failed to notice that the vague and indefinite information given on the telephone which made the investigating agency only to rush to the scene of occurrence could not be treated as a first information  There is ample evidence on the record to show that the appellant had a motive to commit the alleged crime . We are unable to agree with Mr Ganguli that the motive for the appellant to  The seizure of documents on June 29, 1990, after the appellant had been arrested only a couple of weeks earlier, would not go to show that the documents were fabricated or were an after  The court heard that the appellant went to Flat No. 3-A of Anand Apartment. on March 5, 1990 for the Temple. At about 5.20 p.m  The prosecution has thus, conclusively established that at the crucial time, the appellant had gone to Flat No. 3-A, where the deceased was all alone, her mother had left  Third button stitched on shirt was different, distinct and separate from the other three buttons found on the shirt . Third button was of white colour and stitched in a different pattern with mil  The absconding was put to the appellant in his statement under Section 313 CrPC but instead of giving a satisfactory explanation, he came forward with a plea of alibi . No evidence  The nonseizure of the cash memo by the investigating agency cannot discredit the testimony of PW 18 or PW 3 . The absence of any explanation for possession of the wrist-watch belonging  The measure of punishment in a given case must depend upon the atrocity of the crime; the conduct of the criminal and the defenceless and unprotected state of the victim . Judges must consider