 Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1894: Sections 30(2) and 15--Solatium payable under Section 23(2), increased to 30 per cent-Amending  Solatium is awarded under sub-section (2) of Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act . Before the Amendment Act was enacted, the Sub-section provided for solatium  The range of judicial review recognised in the Superior Judiciary of India is perhaps the widest and the most exten- sive known to the world of law . The power extends to examin  The Court of Appeal: Civil Appeal Nos. 2839-40 of 1989 etc. etc. of 1989 .  The land belonging to the respondents in village Dhaka was taken by compulsory acquisition initiated by a notifica- tion under-s. 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 issued  Sub-s. (2) of s. 23 of the Land Acquisition Act specifies the category of cases to which the amended rate of solatium is attracted . India is governed by  Constitution of India envisages three distinct organs of the State, each with its own distinctive functions, each a pillar of the state . The courts in India possess a power not known to the  Holmes: Legal compulsions cannot be limited by existing legal propositions . There will always be, beyond the frontiers of the existing law, new areas inviting judicial scrutiny and judicial choice-making  In a developing society such as India the law does not assume its true function when it follows a groove chased amidst a context which has long since crum- bled . There will be  A decision concerning questions of construction of statute or other documents ought not to be overruled except in rare and exceptional cases (the 'Construction' criterion) Dr Paterson noted that between the  U.S. Supreme Court has explicitly overruled its prior decision in a number of cases . Brandeis, J. in State of Washington v. Dawson & Co., [264  In Lt. Khajoor Singh v. Union of India, the court emphasised that the court must not lightly dissent from a previous pronouncement of this Court . An earlier version of  In Sajjan Singh v. State of Rajasthan, the court laid down the test: 'Is it absolutely necessary and essential that the question already decided should be reo-  T.V. Vatheeswaran v. The State of Tamil Nadu said delay exceeding two years in execution of a sentence of death should be considered sufficient to . invoke Article 21  The preliminary objection raised by learned counsel for respondents to the reference is overrruled . The principle was reaffirmed in Union of India & Ors. v Godfrey Philips India Ltd.  The Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act of 1984 is limited to the interpretation of s. 30(2) of the Land Acquisition Act . The words 'any such award' cannot bear  The words 'any such award' are intended to have deeper signifi- cance, and in the context in which those words appear in s.30(2) it is clear that  The Court of Appeal in Bhag Singh v Mohinder Singh, (supra) has omitted to give due significance to all the material provisions of s.30(2) of the