 An arbitrator awarded huge compensation to employers against the workmen for losses incurred by the employers during the strike period . The workmen challenged the award as illegal and void by filing two writ  It is agreed that section 23 read section 24 of the Act makes the strike in question illegal . The arbitrator held in the affirmative and according to us it is an unhappy error of law  An illegal strike is the creation of the statute and the remedy for the illegal strike and its fall, out has to be sought within the statute . The right of the management to claim compensation  The only survival after death, as it were, is a die-hard litigation tied up to a few near-academic, but important, legal points for adjudication by the highest  Mazdoor Sangh challenged the award as illegal and void by filing two writ petitions . High Court quashed that part of the award directed payment of compensation by the workers to the management .  An arbitrator appointed under section 10A has power to bind even those who are not parties to the reference or agreement and the source of the force of the award on publication derive from the  The wider emergence of common canons of judicial review is a welcome trend towards a one world public law . The Court has relied on the leading English decisions in several cases .  A legal question must necessarily be wrong in point of law . Even though the award contains no statement of the legal proposition, the Court may rightly hold that an error of law on the face  The award of the Tribunal, in its totality, is quite prolix the reasons stated in arguing out its conclusions many and thus it is just to state that in the present case the arbit  Salmond: "The tort is unusual because it emphasises the purpose of the defendants rather than the results of their conduct" Sabotage is no weapon in workers' legal armoury  The author complains that the fundamental basis is unsatisfactory and uncertain and demands that a complete re-writing of the principles on which the tort of conspiracy and intimidation is necessary .  Barraclough v. Brown & Ors(1) decided by the House of Lords is telling, particularly Lord Watson's statement of the law at p. 622: "  There is no provision in the Act which contemplates a claim for money by an employer from the workmen.- And indeed, it may be a little startling to find such a provision,