 The Judgments of the Court were delivered by S. RATNAVEL PANDIAN, J. (J) Punchhi, K. Ramaswamy, J., Ag  This Act contains 21 sections relating to the establishment of special courts, their composition, jurisdiction and appointment of judges and provision for an appeal as a matter of right from any judgment, sentence or  The Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Ordinance, 1987 (2 of 1987) was enacted as Act 31 of 1985 was due to expire on May 23, 1987  The Act contains 30 sections grouped under four parts i.e. Part 1 (Sections 1 and 2), Part 11, Part III (SECTions 9 to 19) and  The Parliament in its wisdom thought that the enactment of these Acts (TADA) is the only solution for all the ills, besetting the nation and accordingly enacted these Acts under challenge  Terrorists had been indulging in wanton killings, arson, looting of properties and other heinous crimes mostly in Punjab and Chandigarh . At present they have outstretched their activities  The Bill on the Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 provides special procedure and speedy trial of those offenses . The existing ordinary criminal laws are found to be  A Full Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Sukhdev Singh v. Union Territory, Chandigarh' M.M.Punchhi, J  Act 31 of 1985 and Act 28 of 1987 have been enacted by Parliament as a piece of emergency legislation for a certain length of time . They have been extended to the whole of India and  It has been said that all those laws fall within the ambit of 'public order' appearing in Entry of List II . Mr Balwant Singh Malik, in support of his contention,  The 'pith and substance' of the Act, according to Mr Tulsi, is in Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 to which the rest of the sections are merely incidental  Constitutional scheme relating to distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States . Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the 97 subjects enumerated in List I of the  Lord Porter speaking for the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Ltd., Khulna6 quoted with approval the observations of  Entries 1 and 64 of State List which are as under: "Public order (but not including the use of His Majesty's naval, military or air forces in aid of the civil  The petitioners can succeed in their challenge to the validity of the Act with regard to the legislative competence of Parliament, only if it can be said that the Act deals with activities relating to  The 'Terrorist and Disruptive Activities' Act contemplates commission of any specified offence or offenses with a specific intention one of which being "to overawe the Government as by  The contention that the Acts 61 of 1984, 31 of 1985 and 28 of 1987 are ultra vires on the ground of suffering from lack of legislative competence and as such the entire Acts are  The right to a speedy trial is a derivation from a provision of Magna Carta . This principle has also been incorporated into the Virginia Declaration of Rights of 1776 and from there  The concept of speedy trial is read into Article 21 as an essential part of the fundamental right to life and liberty . This right has been actuated in the recent past and the courts have  No length of time is per se too long to pass scrutiny under this principle nor the accused is called upon the show the actual prejudice by delay of disposal of cases . The court has to  Article 20 and 21 of the Constitution can be exercised and enforced even during emergency . The exemption was given by the above Amendment Act for the reasons spelt out in the 'Statement of Object  The definition of the word 'abet' as defined under Section 2(1)(a) of 1987 Act is as follows: "In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, includes  The word 'abet' is generally used with the word 'aid' and similar words . Section 107 of Indian Penal Code defines the word, 'abetment' (which is a noun  The word 'established' is used in Article 21 in order to denote and ensure that the procedure prescribed by law must be defined with certainty . Chandrachud, C.J.  Court in State of Maharashtra v. M.H.George36 while examining a question as to whether mens rea or actual knowledge is an essential ingredient of the offence under Section 8  In our view, therefore, the offence of abetment also would not require any kind of mens rea." In the Act of 1984, the word 'abet' is not  An enactment is void for vagueness if its prohibitions are not clearly defined . Vague laws may trap the innocent by not providing fair warning . An innocent person can be arrested and prosecuted  The Central Government to declare by notification any area as "terrorist affected area" is not only vague but also without any guidance . The prerequisite conditions which are sine qua non for declaring  Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 1993 (Act 43 of 1993) amended . Section 4 of the Act reads as follows: Punishment for disruptive activities  Section 6 of the Act of 1987 provides 'Enhanced penalties' for a person who with intent to aid any terrorist or disruptionist, contravenes any provision of, or any rule made  When a law visits a person with serious penal consequences extra care must be taken to ensure that those whom the legislature did not intend to be covered by the express language of the statute are not  Section 8 gives discretionary authority to the Designated Court to attach the property of an absconding accused and also the power to apply Sections 83 to 85 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to  Sub-section (7) of Section 9 is challenged on the ground that the continuance of a Judge of a Designated Court even after attainment of the age of superannuation is  A serious argument has been advanced in respect of Section 11(2) of the 1987 Act (TADA) which provides for the transfer of any case pending before one Designated Court in  Mr Hardev Singh also made his submission in the same line Challenging the constitutional validity of Section 11(2). The learned Additional Solicitor General argued that since the provision presupp  Section 11 requires the Central Government to specify a Designated Court outside the State by issuing a notification in the Official Gazette with the concurrence of the Chief Justice of India . The authority to  Under Article 139-A of the Constitution of India either the Attorney General of India or a party to any case can move the Supreme Court on an application for transfer of certain cases . The  The final order passed by the Government may be open to judicial review but not the concurrence accorded which is only a statutory condition to be satisfied before passing the transfer order by the Central  Mr Harjinder Singh says police confessions are untrustworthy, a fortiori, the confessions recorded on mechanical devices are certainly inferior to confessions recorded by Magistrates in open courts .  Section 15 of the Act gives a death-knell to the very basic principle hitherto recognised and followed that a confession made before a police officer under any circumstance as well as a confession to  The constitutional validity of Section 15 is to be determined on the basis of the competence of the Parliament to vary the procedure which is just and fair in the facts and circumstances of the situation .  A confession made by a person before a police officer and recorded by such police officer under Section 15 of the Act shall invariably be recorded in the language in which such confession is made and if  Article 22(1) and (2) confer certain rights upon a person who has been arrested . Section 161 empowers a police officer to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with  An accused or a person accused of any offence is protected by the constitutional provisions as well as the statutory provisions to the extent that no self incriminating statement made by an accused to the police  The Parliament has got the legislative competence to enact this law namely the TADA Act and the Special Courts Act of 1984 . We can safely hold that the procedure prescribed under this Act cannot be  There is a line of decisions in support of the proposition that the Legislature is free to make classification of 'offences' and 'offenders' in the application of a statute . Mr  In Goesaert v. Cleary, a Michigan statute forbidding women being licensed as bartenders and at the same time making an exception in favour of the wives and daughters of the  The West Bengal Special Courts Act was impugned in State of W.B. v. Anwar Ali Sarkar5O . Section 5 provided that a special Court shall try such  The court has to see whether the power is used for any extraneous purpose and whether it is discriminatory so as to offend Article 14 . The next question is whether the procedure in recording the  A confession made by a person before a police officer can be made admissible in the trial of such person but also against the co-accused, abettor conspirator or conspir  Under Section 21(1)(d), in a prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) of Section 3, the Designated Court could raise a presumption that the accused had committed such  The confession should be recorded in a free atmosphere in the same language in which the person is examined and as narrated by him . No police officer below rank of an Assistant Commissioner of Police in  Full Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in Bimal Kaur58 struck down Section 16(1) as offending Article 14 of the Constitution .  Section 16(2) and (3) of Act 1987 empower the Designated Court to take measures for keeping the identity and address of witnesses secret and to issue directions for securing that their  The identity of the witness is necessary in the normal trial of cases to achieve the above objects . The right of confrontation is one of the fundamental guarantees so that he could guard himself from being  The rules of natural justice had not been followed before the order was passed since the inquiry had been held behind their back; the witnesses who tendered evidence against them were not examined in their  If the witnesses are unknown to the defence then there is no possibility of knowing the identity of the witnesses even after they enter into the witness box . The identity, names and addresses of the  There is no logic or convincing reasoning in forcing a person aggrieved by the judgment, sentence or order of the Designated Court passed only under the ordinary criminal law to prefer an appeal to  Section 3 of the Code deals with the construction of references to the words 'Magistrates', 'Magistrate of the Second Class', 'Chief Judicial Magistrate' and 'Executive Magistrate  The Executive Magistrates are empowered to perform certain functions some of which are 'judicial or quasi-judicial' in character . They are also assigned significant functions for prevention and dealing with the investigation  The limits within which the executive Government can function under the Indian Constitution can be ascertained without much difficulty by reference to the form of the executive which our Constitution has set up .  Sub-section (3) of Section 20 of the TADA Act does not offend either Article 14 or Article 21 and hence this sub-section does not suffer from any constitutional invalidity  The High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Bimal Kaur58 has examined a similar challenge as to the vires of Section 20(7) of TADA Act, and  No provision relating to anticipatory bail was in the old Code and it was introduced for the first time in the present Code of 1973 . It is needless to emphasise that both the Parliament  The questions arise for consideration are whether the State Legislature has legislative competence to delete Section 438 of the Code; and whether the U.P. Act 16 of 1976 is violative of  Sub-section (8) of Section 20 commences with a non- obstante clause as in Rule 184 of the Rules of 1971 (referred to above) and in its operation  Section 436 of the Code provides for grant of bail to a person accused of a bailable offence, while Section 437 provides for granted bail to any accused of, or suspected of,  The source of power of a Designated Court to grant bail is not Section 20(8) of the Act as it only places limitations on such power . The exercise of the power to  In Usmanbhai53, this Court upheld the view expressed by the High Court of Himachal Pradesh in Ishwar Chand v. State of H.P.113 . The  The conditions imposed under Section 20(8)(b), as rightly pointed out by the Additional Solicitor General, are in consonance with the conditions prescribed under clauses (i) and  Bombay High Court in Rafiq Abid Patel v. Inspector of Police, Thane115 . In that case, the learned Judges disagreeing with the view taken by another Bench .  The High Courts have very wide powers under Article 226, the vastness of the powers imposes on it the responsibility to use them with circumspection and in accordance with the judicial consideration and well  1954 SC 215] 119 [[1968] INSC 95; [(1968) 3 SCR 692] [AIR 1968 SC 1481 ] 120 [[1972] IN SC 108; [(  The [the [the . [vigment] of the . . the . world is a country which stands . in troubled times, the country that clings to . its .  Sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 16 are not liable to be struck down . However, in order to ensure the purpose and object of cross-examination, we  The writ petitions, criminal appeals and SLP are disposed of 715 accordingly with no costs . The contentions raised on the facts of each case will be decided separately by the appropriate bench  There can be no liberty without social restraint, says Dr Ambedkar . Equality and liberty are not to be treated as separate entities but in a trinity . Police given wide powers to  Article 3 of Declaration of Human Rights assures that everyone has right to life, liberty and security of person . No one should be subjected to physical violence of the person as well as to torture  Interrogation process is like hypnosis, says author . Police interrogation can produce a trance like state of heightened suggestibility so that police interrogation can become hopelessly hopelessly .  A study by Weistein Abrahams and Subbons said to have revealed that implanting a false sense of guilt by hypnosis would not pass a polygraphic lie detector test . The  The Law Commission of India stated that custodial violence and abuse of police power has been concern of international community . India being a party to the declarations and Conventions, is under an obligation  A confession made by an accused person is irrelevant if it appears to the court to have been caused by inducement, promise or threat having a reference to the charge proceeding from a person in  In Pakala Narayana Swami case the Privy Council held that any person referred to in Section 162 would include a person who eventually became an accused . In Tahsildar  In Nazir Ahmad v. King-Emperor' 27 the Privy Council held that the Magistrate acting under Section 164, though is not acting as a court, yet he is  Section 15(1) of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 for short "the Act" empowering the police officer not below the rank of the  The procedure contemplated by Article 21 of the Constitution means just and fair procedure and reasonable law . The standard of fairness in recording confession under Section 15(1) of the Act must be within  The expression "life or personal liberty" in Article 21 of the Constitution as stated hereinbefore includes right to live with human dignity which would include guarantee against torture and assault by the State .  The Code and the Evidence Act seek to avoid inherent suspicion of a police officer obtaining confession from the accused, does the same dust not cloud the vision of superior police officer? Does such a  In a unanimous decision Frankfurter, J., speaking for the court, held that the confession was in violation of Rule 5(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure and the  The court held that when an accused has invoked his right to have counsel present during custodial interrogation he is not subject to further interrogation by the authorities until the counsel is made available to him  Sub-section (7) is material for the purpose of this case which reads thus: "For the removal of doubts, it is hereby provided that the attainment of a person appointed as  The recruitment of officers to the judicial service of the State below the level of the district judge is either by the Public Service Commission or by the High Court in some States . Recruitment  Judicial independence means total liberty of the presiding judge to try, hear and decide the cases that have come before him according to the set procedure . The subordinate judiciary is complement to constitutional courts as  A conjoint reading of Sections 9, 11 and 12 of the Act does not indicate to preserve the control or supervision of the High Court over the Designated Courts or judges holding the posts  The Bankruptcy Act of 1978 established, in each federal judicial district as an adjunct to the Federal District Court for the District of the District, United States' . The judges were subject  The Constitution does not permit the establishment of a criminal court, of the status of a court, presided over by a 'district judge' as defined in Article 235, which is not  Article 21 of the Constitution is, by itself, enough to bring this out . Nomination of the retired judges was treated with disfavor . This principle reinforces that the judicial function must  The de facto doctrine is not a stranger to the Constitution or to the Parliament and the legislature of the States . Article 233-A recognises this doctrine brought by Constitution Twentieth Amendment  The High Court has jurisdiction and control over the Court of Session or the Magistrate, but under the scheme of the Act there is a wall of separation and complete exclusion of the jurisdiction of  In Connolly Brothers Ltd. 147 the facts were that Palatine Court and Chancery Division have coordinate jurisdiction over debenture holder of a company carrying on business in the County Pal  In Santoshi Tel Utpadak Kendra v. Dy. C.S. T 149 the Commissioner and the tribunal under Bombay Sales Tax Act had concurrent jurisdiction to entertain revision against the  The High Court has jurisdiction and power under Article 226 to issue appropriate writ or direction or order in exceptional cases at the behest of a person accused of an offence triable under the Act .  Various provisions of the Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (Act 28 of 1987) and Act 31 of 1985 (hereinafter referred to as '  Terrorism cannot be accepted as legitimate and legal by any civilised society, or any form of Government . Use of force by the State to overcome such inhuman menace invading State's monopoly to counter  The power to legislate is given to the appropriate legislatures by Article 246 of the Constitution . The words following the expression 'criminal law' enlarge the scope to any matter which can validly  If the legislation relating to TADA can fall in Entry 1 of List II then the State Legislature would have competence to make a law under this entry and create offenses for violation of such law  Article 21 is a constitutional command to State to preserve the basic human rights of every person . It lays foundation for society where rule of law has primacy and not arbitrary or capricious  The word 'except' restricts the right of the State by directing it not to fiddle with this guarantee, unless it enacts a law which must withstand the test of Article 13 .  The legislation has been upheld as the legislature is competent to enact in respect of a crime not otherwise covered by any Entry in List II of the Seventh Schedule . The Act visualises prosecution of  A confession made to a high police officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police and above, under very restricted conditions, will be admissible in a court of law . It is not the  A confession obtained by threat or inducement or force is rendered inadmissible . But if the same confession is made in presence of a Magistrate then by Section 26 it is not treated  Section 15 of the TADA throws all established norms only because it is recorded by a high police officer . The word 'offence' used in the article should be given its ordinary meaning  A provision for appeal to this Court in minor cases may result in defeating the remedy itself . Inability to file appeal due to financial reasons in petty matters may amount to breach of 161 A  Mohd. Mustaqiml 21. The power given to High Court under Article 226 is an extraordinary power not only to correct the manifest error but also to exercise it for sake of  The High Court is constitutionally obliged to ensure that any authority which exercises judicial and quasi-judicial powers within the framework of law, are entitled to entertain the petition to determine if the proceedings were