 The Jammu and Kashmir Engineering (Gazetted) Service Recruitment Rules, 1970, provided that recruitment to the post of Executive Engineers and above was to be made only by  The rule providing that graduates shall be eligible for such promotion to the exclusion of diploma holders does not violate articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution . It is wrong to characterise the operation of  Roshan Lal's case laid down is that direct recruits and promotees lose their birthmarks on fusion into a common stream of service and cannot be treated differently by reference to the fact  Roshan Lal Tandon v. Union of India, [1967] INSC 174], Mervyn Coutindo & Ors. v. Collector of Customs, Bombay &  The conditions of service were then governed by the rules published under Order No. 1328-C of 1939 . The rules further provided that appointments by transfer (that is, by promotion)  The main "Judgment was delivered by Mufti Bahauddin J. . The learned Chief Justice, by a concurring 197 judgment struck down the rules for all time . The  An argument which found favour with Mufti Bahauddin J.,one of the learned Judges of the Letters Patent Bench of the High Court, was repeated before us .  The impugned rules do not recall a promotion already made or reduce a pay-scale already granted . They provide, for a classification by prescribing a . qualitative standard, the measure of  The High Court refused to allow the appeal on the narrow ground that the respondents' plea of discrimination was inadequate .  The main question for decision arises out of the challenge to the Rules of 1970 under which diploma-holders in the cadre of Assistant Engineers are not entitled even to be considered for promotion to  Article 16 of the Constitution ensures to all citizens equality of opportunity in matters relating to employment is but an instance or incident of the guarantee of equality contained in article 14 . Equality is for equals  In State of Mysore v. Narasing Rao (3) it was held that articles 14 and 16 do not exclude the laying down of selective tests nor do they preclude the Government  All Executive Engineers will, after October 12, 1970, be appointed from amongst graduates in the rank of Assistant Engineers . The Governor was entitled to give weight to these practical considerations and to restrict  Roshan Lal Tandon, who had entered Railway service in 1954 as a skilled artisan and was later selected and confirmed in Grade'D' as a Train Examiner, filed a writ  Roshan Lal's case laid down that direct recruits and promotees lose their birth-marks on fusion into a common stream of service and they cannot thereafter be treated differently by reference to  Roshan Lal's, Mervyn Coutindo's and Pandit's (2) cases fall in a class apart . Classification of which we have to determine the validity  Engineers with diplomas are likely to be drawn from poorer families and not necessarily because they are incapable of making the 'degree' grade . An opportunity for them to level up, through experience