 The High Court has no power under Art. 226 of the Constitution to issue a writ of certiorari in order to quash an error of fact, even though it may be apparent  Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated August 6, 1957, of the Assam High Court in Civil Rule No. 65 of 1957 . New Suwarna Transport Co.  The State of Assam v. A. N. Kidwai (1) is reported in the case of The State . The main ground of decision in the 1245 High Court  The appeal relates to the settlement of the Murmuria country spirit shop in the district of Sibsagar, for the financial year 1957-58 . The appellant took possession of the  Appeal relates to the Tinsukia country spirit shop in the district of Lakhimpur . Rafiulla Khan and Mahibuddin Ahmad are partners in the settlement of the shop  Tinsukia shop settled with respondents I and 2 though the appellants also had jointly submitted a tender for the same . The Excise Commissioner set aside the settlement by the Deputy Commissioner  The High Court closed for the long vacation on September 2, and was to reopen on 1251 November 3, 1957 . Appellants felt that they had been wrongfully deprived of their  There is no inherent right in a citizen to sell liquor, the High Court said . But s. 9 of the Act has laid down a regular hierarchy of authorities, one above the other  Halsbury's Laws of England states that an administrative body may be under a duty to act judicially in the course of arriving at that decision . Rule 343 requires the memorandum of  The Appellate Authority was unable to function for any period by reason of any judicial pronouncement . The amendment was made on 23rd May, 1956, and shall have retrospective effect since  The High Court had held that the Appellate Authority had exceeded its jurisdiction in passing the order it did . The question, therefore, is whether the High Court was right in holding that  The entire proceedings are marked by a complete lack of formality . The question whether or not any rules of natural justice had been contravened should be decided not under any pre- conceived  The High Court appears to have been under the impression that the expression "error apparent on the face of the record" may also be in respect of findings of fact . Ordinarily, a  The Queen v. James Bolton is treated as a landmark on the power to issue a writ or order of certiorari . The case of Reg v. Bolton (supra) was  Case of Rex v. Northumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal (1) arose out of an application for an order of certiorari for quashing a decision reached by the respondent Northumber  Until about 100 years ago, certiorari was regularly used to correct errors of law on the face of the record . It is only within the last century that it has fallen into dis  The jurisdiction of the Appellate Authority, to entertain the appeals, has never been in doubt or dispute . Section 9(3) of the Act, gives it the power to pass  The High Court heard both parties on the merits of the orders passed by the Commissioner of Excise and the Appellate Authority, in favour of the appellants, against which, the  670, 670, who has failed on the main point raised on his behalf, must bear his own costs . Appeals allowed. 670 .