 1995 SC 2272; 1995 SCC (5) [5 JT 1995] (5.5) JT 296; 1995 (4) SCALE 438 (12 July  Kerala High Court said that the appellate authority had full powers under Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act to consider on merits the question of condonation of delay in filing appeal  The appellate authority may, while confirming the order of eviction passed by the Rent Control Court, grant an extension of time to the tenant for putting the landlord in possession of the building . The  District Judge Thallassery has taken the view that since he is a persona designata he cannot resort to Section 5 of the Limitation Act for condoning the delay in filing appeal  A court was concerned with the question whether the Assistant Registrar of Co-operative Societies functioning under Section 48 of the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative Societies Act, 1935 was a court subordinate  Kerala Rent Act provides for statutory appeal to the appellate authority . Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act would get attracted to appeals filed under Section 18 of the Rent Act . Section  Section 5 relating to the power of the court to condone delay in preferring appeals and making applications came under the latter category . Section 5 relates to power of a court to condone delay in  Mr. Nariman contended that unless courts functioning under special law or local law are constituted under the Civil Procedure Code, Section 29(a) cannot apply to them . Nariman tried to  Article 137 of the [Limitation Act, 1963] governs only applications presented to courts under the Civil and Criminal Procedure Codes . Bhargava J. speaking for this court held that Article  It has to be held that the entire schedule to the Limitation Act prescribes various periods of limitation for suit, appeal or application to be moved before full- fledged civil or criminal  It is trite to observe that as per Section 14(2) of the Limitation Act if the applicant was persuing any civil proceedings with due diligence in a first court or any  The appellant had contended that the time spent by him in obtaining certified copy of the order of the lower authority was required to be excluded for computing period of limitation for filing revision under Section 10  A division bench of Madras High Court in the case of took the view that the Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act was a special and local enactment . Section 29  I.A.56/94 filed by the applicant for condonation of delay on its own merits . Appeal is allowed accordingly. In the facts and circumstances of the case there will