 Employees of Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation had their services terminated after disciplinary enquiries were held against them on charges of misconduct . They filed civil suits for a declaration that the order terminating  Industrial Disputes Act (the Act) was enacted to make provision for investigation and settlement of industrial disputes and for certain other purposes . Conciliation will be compulsory in all disputes in public utility  The [Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946] was enacted by Parliament to require employers in industrial establishments to define formally the conditions of employment under them with sufficient precision and to  In Baqalkot Cement Co.Ltd. V. R.Kathan & Ors.Pathan & . Ors., v. Dewan Tea Estate & Or  Workers of Dewan Tea Estates & Ors. v. Their Manager v. D.K.Yadav v.M.A. Industries Ltd. (1993 (3  The limited purpose of Section 13-A is to provide a forum for determination of any question arising "as to the application or interpretation" of the certified Standing Orders as such, in case  This question involves the perennial problem concerning the jurisdiction of the Civil Court vis-a-vis Special Tribunals, a subject upon which the decisions of this Court, let alone other courts  The Court approved the following decisions: Krishnan v East India Distilleries and Sugar Factories Ltd., Nellikuppam (1964 (1) L.J.217 :  The High Court held that Civil Court's jurisdiction is not barred, inasmuch as the only ground upon which the dismissal was impugned was in violation of the contract of service governed  Premier Automobiles says it is the interest of the workmen that disputes concerning them are adjudicated in the forums created by the Act and not in a Civil Court . No right or obligation  In Jitendra Nath Biswas case, no allegation of violation of the certified Standing Orders was made in 1988 . The only basis of the suit was violation of principles of natural justice .  The government is entitled to examine whether the dispute is ex-facie frivolous, not meriting an adjudication . The policy of law emerging from Industrial Disputes Act and its sister enact