 The High Court dismissed the writ petition holding that there was no conflict between the impugned provisions and the Central law, i.e., the [Medicinal and Toilet Preparations  The power of the State Legislature to make a law in respect of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol was taken away . "Drugs and Pharmaceuticals" having been declared by Parliament under s  The impugned Act is relatable to Entry 8, List II of the Seventh Schedule . It was within the competence of the State Legislature to prevent the noxious use of such preparations  The State Act, in pith and substance, is not a legislation under Entry 24, List 11 and, therefore, the question does not arise . The provision contained in s. 14  The main question in the appeal is as to the legislative competence of the State to enact a law relating to medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol . The contention that Note to rule 3(1  The High Court held that there was no conflict between the impugned provisions and the Central law as they dealt with different subjects . The law relating to medicinal and toilet preparations is within the  Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules, 1972, provide for levy of excise duty as excess wastage of alcohol in the manufacture of medicinal and toilet preparations cannot be supported in terms of the charging provision  The Act is relatable to the State's power to make a law on the topics of legislation covered by Entries 8 and 51, List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution .  Section 3 (1) reads: There shall be levied duties of excise, at the rates specified in the Schedule, on all dutiable goods manufactured in India . Section 6 prohibits any  The enumeration of 'intoxicating liquor' in Entry 8, List II confers exclusive power to the State to legislate in respect of medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol . The  The main object of the supervisory staff mentioned in r. 36 is to supervise the manufacture of medicinal preparations . The Court pointed out that the Central Rules make no provision for recovery of  The impugned provisions have been enacted to ensure that rectified spirit is not misused under the pretext of being used for medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol . The challenge to the validity  The restrictions imposed by s. 12B as to the alcoholic content of medicinal and toilet preparations are nothing but reasonable restrictions within the meaning of Art. 19(6) of the Constitution .  The distinction between a 'tax' and a 'fee' is well- settled . 'Fees' are the amounts paid for a privilege, and are not an obligation, but the  Supreme Court: The element of quid pro quo must be established between the payer of the fee and the authority charging it . It seems that the Court proceeded on the assumption that the  The Court was concerned with the validity of supervisory charges of the excise establishment from a consumer and not from the manufacturer under the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915 . The burden  The cost of the establishment levied under s. 14(e) of the Act is to be collected from the licensee in the manner provided by the Kerala Rectified Spirit Rules, 1972 .  The objection is to the validity of r. 13(2) in so far as it enables the levy of duty on excess wastage of alcohol . The Government fully realised that some margin  It is not disputed that the provisions are regulatory in nature and they impose reasonable restrictions on the freedom of trade . For these reasons, both the Appeal and the Special Leave Petition must fail and