 The respondents, who belong to the Scheduled Castes, were working as Selection Grade Auditors in the Department of Indian Audit and Accounts . They appeared for Part II Subordinate Accounts Service  The writ appeal was allowed by a Division Bench holding that the authorities concerned had not applied their mind to the actual state of affairs that existed, in fixing the relaxation which negatived the  Office Memorandum dated January 21, 1977 is not intended only for the Department of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India . It also applies to all Ministries and Departments .  Article 335 of the Constitution provides for the claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to be taken into consideration in the making of appointments to services and posts  Appeal filed against the judgment of a Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No. 409 of 1982 . It raises a question of importance to the members of the Scheduled  Article 46, which occurs in Part IV containing the Directive Principles of State Policy, provides that the State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people  The policy in regard to reservations for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes officers in posts filled by promotion on the basis of seniority subject to fitness has now been reviewed . The  Subordinate Accounts Service (hereinafter referred to as "the SAS) is a Central Subordinate Service under the rule-making control of the President acting 31 in consultation with the Com  Paragraph 199 provides as follows: The essential condition which shall govern the selection by the Accountant General or other Heads of Offices is that the candidate selected shall, if qualified by examination  A writ of mandamus should be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs through the Comptroller & Auditor General, indicating whether claims of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candidates eligible  In Halsbury's v. Hochtief Gammon v. State of Orissa & Ors., this Court held that the powers of the courts in England as regards the  The High Courts in India exercising their jurisdiction under Article 226 have the power to issue a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of . mandamus . The purpose of an order  The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India is required to exercise the discretion conferred by the said Office Memorandum dated January 21, 1977 . The question which now falls to be considered is  The relaxed or lower qualifying standard cannot be fixed for all time or for a number of years . How many are to be promoted must depend upon the number of vacancies which remain unfilled .  Orissa High Court had struck down an Office Memorandum dated May 7, 1955, on which there was no reservation made in the case of posts to be filled by promotion on the basis  A doubt was raised as to what should be the relaxed or lower standard in the case of the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in qualifying examination for promotion  It is not possible to equate the members of the Scheduled Castes with goods imported from abroad . The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has taken a contrary view which is neither  Division Bench of the High Court had perused the file containing the proposals for moderation of results and award of grace marks in the SAS Examination and the Revenue and Audit Examination for Section Officers held  It is difficult to understand how the percentage of pass in respect of SC/ST candidates from 33.3 to 40.29 . The number of vacancies reserved for the Scheduled Castes  The relaxation would have resulted in impairing the maintenance of efficiency of the SAS . Article 335 of the Constitution provides for the claims of the members of the Scheduled Castes and the Sched  Madras High Court dismiss this Appeal and confirm the judgment of the High Court in Writ Appeal No. 409 of 1982 . For Part II examination of the Subordinate Accounts Service Examination (Ord  In respect of all subsequent examinations to be held for the Subordinate Accounts Service, the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India will fix a relaxed or lower standard in advance and notify it