 The validity of the trial and convictions was challenged on appeal to the Supreme Court inter alia on the ground that they contravened arts. 14 and 20 of the Constitution and on the  At the commencement of the trial (namely 2nd December, 1949) there was no provision requiring all trials before Courts of Sessions to be either by jury or with the aid of assess  The case for the prosecution against them is as follows: In the State of Panna (one of the component units of the United State of Vindhya Pradesh) there are certain diamond  The question raised depends on a construction of the provisions of the Vindhya Pradesh Criminal Law Amendment (Special Court) Ordinance No. V of 1949 dated 2nd December, 1949 .  The only limitation on the application of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code to the 1195 proceedings of the Special Court is the one arising from the existence of any inconsistent provisions in the,  The repealing section 4 of Act No. XXX of 1950 contained a saving clause providing that the repeal of the previous operation of any such law, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be  The case in Keshavan Madhavan Menon v. The State of Bombay(1) has been relied on to show that the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution have no retrospective  The Vindhya Pradesh Ordinance XLVIII of 1949, though enacted on 11th September, i.e., after the alleged offences were committed, was in terms made retrospective by  The argument that on the very terms of Ordinance No. XLVIII of 1949 there is no pre-existing law with reference to which the constitutionality of the convictions under article 20  A fresh Instrument of Accession was executed by the Rajpramukh on behalf of the United State of Vindhya Pradesh on the 20th of July, 1948, and was  The Indian Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were introduced in the Rewa State, in the letter and in the spirit with due adaptation to local conditions . It follows that the Indian  The Indian Penal Code as in force in Rewa became extended to Vindhya Pradesh by Ordinance No. IV of 1948 . We are prima facie inclined to accept this view  Clause 9 of section 21, Indian Penal Code shows that every officer in the service or pay of the Crown for the performance of any public duty is a "public servant" The Privy  It is well-known that these rulers had no external sovereignty, as it was taken out of them and exercised by the suzerain British power . For internal purposes or municipal purposes the  An old treaty of 1813 between Rewa State and the British Government and a judoment of the Rewa High Court in 1945 have been brought to our notice to show the contrary  A careful scrutiny of the scheme of the integration and accession covenants shows clearly that such an argument is not tenable . The provisions under the Government of India Act under which the Instrument  Vindhya Pradesh Criminal Law Amendment (Special Courts) Ordinance No. V of 1949 is not open to objection under article 20 on the ground that it is a conviction under an ex