 Petitioners were ordered to pay sales-tax on account of certain transactions made by them in the State of Bihar . Petitioners' contention was that the sales in question took place outside the  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GAJENDRAGADKAR, C.J.- These writ petitions have been placed for hearing before us in a group, because they raise  Petitioners say authorities are trying to recover from petitioners sales-tax in respect of transactions to which the petitioners were parties . Art 286(1) (a) provides that no  These writ petitions were heard by a Special Bench of this Court on the 26th July, 1963 in order to determine the constitutional question as to whether the State Trading Corporation Ltd. can claim  Petitioners argue that where the fundamental rights of a citizen are contravened, may be by a quasi-judicial order, in pursuance of which a tax is attempted to be recovered  The majority decision was that Ujjam Bai's petition should be dismissed, but the reasons given in the judgments pronounced by the learned Judges who agreed with the majority decision are not all uniform  The Sales-tax Officer has held wrongly that the impugned transactions are not inter-State transactions, the remedy of petition under Art. 32 is not open to the aggrieved citizen  Petitioners argue that the decision merely held that the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. was not a citizen . The true legal position in regard to the character of a corporation or a company  The doctrine of lifting of the veil postulates the existence of dualism between the corporation or company on the one hand and its members or shareholders on the other . Some exceptions have been recognised  The State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. Ltd. argued that Art. 19(1)(c) enables citizens to choose instruments for carrying on the business instruments on the basis of Art.  The petitioners' writ petitions are dismissed as being incompetent under Art. 32 of the Constitution . Petitioners' right to form an association cannot be coupled with the fundamental right to carry on