 1978 SC 1558; 1978 SC (3) SCR 59; 1978 (2) SCC 518 (15 February 1978) FAZALALI, SYED MUR  Rameshwar Dayal, Acchmal, Janmeje, Rohan, Raghunandan, Ramdas and Sudama were convicted under section 302/149,  The High Court and the Sessions Judge have clearly spelt out the essential features of the prosecution case and it is not necessary for us to repeat the same with all its details . Babu  The film is being shown on the set of iReporters' iPods . The film will be shown on iReport.com .  The High Court committed a serious error of law in not allowing the appellants an opportunity to rebut the statement of the witnesses examined by the High Court which caused a prejudice to the accused  The right to adduce evidence in rebuttal is one of the inevitable steps in the defence of a case by the accused . A refusal of the same amounts to an infraction of  Both the High Court and the, Sessions Judge have believed the evidence of P.Ws. 1, 2 and 3 who proved the assault on the deceased and Chhotey Lal .  The High Court observed as follows "that this Court would not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence even if it were to take a different view on the evidence  There is overwhelming documentary evidence to show that the statement of the Investigating Officer in Court that he found four empty cartridges is factually incorrect . Both parties proceeded on the footing that the cartridges  A statement in the inquest report was pitted against the medical evidence it had to yield before the opinion of the expert . This principle cannot be applied here for it does-not require an expert  Documents like the inquest reports, seizure lists or the site plans consist of two parts one of which is admissible and the other is inadmissible . We are unable to find any reliable  There was no occasion for mentioning the name of the assailants of Babu Ram or for detailing the circumstances under which he was killed because that was not germane for the proceedings . The