 The accused were convicted under s 302 I.P.C. and sentenced to death by the trial court . The High Court con-firmed their conviction and 510 sentence . Their mercy  The Court dismissed all the writ petitions, except Writ Petition No. 1566 of 1985, which was partly allowed and the sentence of death awarded to the accused was substituted by the sen-  The only jurisdiction which could be sought to be exercised by a prisoner for infringement of his rights can be to challenge the subsequent events after the final judi- cial verdict is pronounced .  There is a clear intention of maintaining this sentence to meet the ends of justice in appropriate cases . It is awarded in the rarest of rare cases and this is the accepted position of law  If the judgment with the sentence awarded is valid and binding, it fails to be executed in accordance with law . If the delay in disposal of the case is not a mitigating circumstance for lesser  The person who com- plaints about the delay in the execution should not be put to further delay . It is now obligatory for the court to state reasons for the sentence awarded for the  R.K. Jain, Rangarajan, Urmila Sirur, Mohd. Naseem, Mukul Mudgal, Sanjay Parikh, San  The substitution of the death sentence by a sen- tence of life imprisonment cannot follow by the application of the two years' formula, as a matter of "quod erat demonstr  The framers of the Indian Constitution were fully aware of the existence of death 522 penalty as punishment for murder, under the Indian Penal Code . It cannot be said that the provisions of  In the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 Section 354 clause (3) has now been introduced and it has been provided that in all cases of murder, life imprisonment should be given unless there are  Par- ties argued at length about the starting point which should be considered for computing delay in execution of the sentence of death . The main theme of the arguments on the basis of delay has  It was contended that Article 21 contemplates not only a fair procedure but also expeditious procedure . In all the High Courts, a confirmation case where the sentence of death is awarded by the  Section 366 authorises the Court of Sessions to commit a person sentenced to death to jail custody under a warrant . But this Section does not contemplate how long he has to be in jail .  It is clear that the prisoner who is sentenced to death and is kept in jail custody under a warrant under Section 366(2) Cr. P.C. is neither serving rigorous imprisonment  In Bachan Singh v. State of punlab, this Court pronounced that the provision of death penalty as an alternative punishment for murder, under sec.302 IPC is valid and constitutional  Vaitheeswarn case was decided by a two Judge Bench . Sher Singh case decided by three Judge benches . Javed Ahmad case decided in place of the death sentence of life imprisonment  "The law laid down by this Court is some what different. There is a hierarchy within the court itself here where larger benches over- rule smaller benches," says R.K. J  We are oath bound to protect the Constitution, we are duty bound to safeguard the life and liberties of persons . We must understand the aspirations and convictions of men and women of our time .  Every living being dreads death and it cannot be an exception with those on death row . The punishment which meets the unanimous approval in one generation, may rank as the most reprehensible form  From 1827 to 1841 several legislations were passed abolishing the punishment of death in a variety of cases . Burning continued till 1790 to be the punishment inflicted on women for treason  The court had to state the rea- sons for not passing the sentence of death . It is now obligatory for the court to state reasons for the sentence awarded for the offence of murder  Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness in State action and ensures fairness and equality of treatment . Article 21 demands that any procedure which takes away the life and liberty of persons must be fair .  In Vaitheeswaran the court thought that the delay of two years would make it unreasonable under Article 21 to execute death sentence . The court did not attach importance to the cause  The demand for life imprisonment is solely based on the ground of prolonged delay in the execution . The delay which is sought 548 tO be relied upon by the accused consists of two parts  Speedy trial is a part of one's fundamental right to life and liberty . The inordinate delay, may be a significant factor, but that by itself cannot render the execution unconstitutional .