 The respondent company was a manufacturer of edible and non-edible oils . The High Court held that the assessee was liable to pay the tax at a flat rate of 3 pies per  Modi Food Products Co., Ltd.-hereinafter referred to as "the assessee", manufactures oils edible and non-edible in its factory at Modinagar, District Meer  A tax at the rate of 3 pies per rupee of turnover was, subject to certain exceptions, made payable by every dealer in each assessment year whose turn over in the previous year exceeded  Non-edible oils became liable to a single point tax as from June 9, 1948, at the time of sale by an importer or manufacturer in the United Provinces .  Sales Tax Officer was right in his view that the levy of tax at the altered rate was not to operate on sales effected before June 9, 1948 . The tax paid on the turnover of  Adoption of the previous year as the taxable turnover for the year of assessment is itself based on a fiction, the High Court said . The court must look squarely at the words of the  AYYANGAR J.-We regret we are unable to agree with the judgment just now pronounced . The facts giving rise to this appeal are briefly 200 these: A company called The Modi  Nonedible oil of the type dealt with by the assessee was 202 subject to a tax @ 6 pies per rupee if the same was manufactured in U.P. P.  The High Court held that the notification under s. 3(A) could not apply to determine the rate of tax payable by the assessee on his turnover of the previous year . The  The tax liability had to be determined on the state of the law as it prevailed on the 1st day of the assessment year and that it got fixed and crystallised on that date and  No difference is maintained in the Act as regards the incidence of the tax, i.e., either in the principle underlying the computation of the total turnover or in 208 the rate or rates  It was pointed out that it was possible for an assessee to submit his return on the basis of the " previous-year-turnover " even on the 1st of April of  If the change in the rate (we have assumed it to be by way of reduction, but the argument would equally apply to variation in any kind), were effected before the actual assessment .  The High Court heard that a change in the law affecting the basis of tax-liability would not affect the previous-year turnover assessees . If an exemption of that type were  The phraseology employed merely means that in the case of the " assessment- year-turnover " dealers only the sale proceeds of sales effected after the specified date would be governed by the  The Court of Appeal upholds the High Court's decision to dismiss the appeal with costs . The majority of the court upheld the decision to uphold the decision .