 The State Legislature of Orissa, then passed the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 1952 . The State Government was empowered to levy a fee being intended for the development of the "  An Orissa Coal Co. Ltd. v. State of Orissa, [1961] 2 S.C. R. 537, followed by Chika Ramji & Or  The Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act (Orissa Act 27 of 1952) raised substantial questions touching the interpretation of the Constitution . The State Government was empowered to levy a fee on a  The Orissa Act was deemed to be non-- existent as and from June 1, 1958 for every purpose, with the consequence that there was lack of power to enforce and realise the  The Orissa Act, as disclosed by its preamble, was "the constitution of' mining areas" and the creation of "a Mining Area Development Fund" beyond it the legislative  The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make such rules as it thinks fit . Section 18 is the provision relating to the other object of the Act "The Development of  Mr. Setalvad-learned Counsel for the respondent-urged that the Central Act covered the entire field of . mineral development, that being the "extent" to  An earlier Act of 1948 was limited to the development of oil-fields . The entire range of the law relating to mines and mineral development was taken over and covered by Central Act 67 of  The validity of this impost was affirmed, however, for the reason that whereas the Orissa Act was a post-Constitution enactment, the Central Act of 1948 was a pre-  The possibility of an order under section 18-G being issued by the Central Government would not be enough . The existence of such an order would be the essential prerequisite before any repugn  The fees, recovery of which was being sought by the State were those which had accrued prior to June 1, 1958 . As the Central Act was not retrospective it could not have operation so  Tindak C.J. stated this in Kay v. Goodwin: "I take the effect of repealing a statute to be to obliterate it as completely from the records of the  There is a difference in principle between the effect of an expiry of a temporary statute and a repeal by a later enactment . The question is res integra and has to be decided on  A repeal may be brought about by repugnant legislation, without even reference to the Act intended to be repealed, for once legislative competence to effect a repeal is posted, it matters little