 InSC 208; AIR 1961 SC 459; 1961 (2) SCR 537 (21 November 1960) The petitioners challenged the constitutional validity of the Orissa Mining Areas Development  The Court held that the cess imposed by the Act was a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and the Constitutional validity of the  There was no adaptation of S. 372 of the Constitution Act LIII of 1948 . Clause 16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, properly construed, cannot be held to refer  The cess levied under s. 4 of the Act could not be justified as a tax on mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule . The impugned Act was  The first petitioner entered upon the lands demised and has been carrying on the business of excavating and producing coal at its collieries at Rampur . The area of this colliery  It is urged on its behalf that the levy 544 imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule .  The distinction between a tax and a fee is important, and it is recognised by the Constitution . Cases may arise where under the guise of levying a fee Legislature may attempt to impose a  In P. P.Kutti Keya v The State of Madras (3), the Madras High Court was called upon to consider, inter (1) INSC 27  Milk Board v. Milk Board (Victoria)(1) challenged the validity of the levy imposed on dairymen and owners of milk depots by s. 30 of the Milk Board Act of  Section 5(5) lays down that without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions the fund may be utilised to defray any of the purposes specified in cls. (  It is not alleged by the petitioners 554 that the levy imposed is unduly or unreasonably excessive so as to make the imposition a colourable exercise of legislative power . The  In Balla Ram v. The Province of East Punjab (1) the Federal Court had to consider the character of the tax levied by s. 3 of the Punjab Urban Immoveable  Privy Council held in Governor- General in Council v. Province of Madras v. Bombay (1). The two taxes, the one levied on the manufacturer in respect of his goods  Section 2 of the Act contains a declaration as to the expediency and control of mines and oil fields . Section 5 empowers the Central Government to make rules by notification for regulating the grant  The Central Act has been continued under Art. 372(1) of the Constitution as an existing law . The question is: Can this declaration by a Dominion law be regarded constitutionally as declaration  It is impossible to hold that the Dominion Legislature is an authority which was competent to exercise any power or to discharge any function under the existing law . Competence to exercise power to discharge functions  There is no constitutional defect in the said Act for the avoidance of which any adaptation is necessary . Act LIII of 1948 continues in operation under Art. 372(1) Article 372 provides  Section 9 authorises the imposition of cess on scheduled industries in certain cases . Central Government may hand over the proceeds of the cess to the Development Council .  The Orissa State Legislature was not competent to levy the cess under the Act . The Act gives power to the State Government to frame rules to carry. into effect the purposes of the .  The Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, No. 76 of 1951, was held to be a tax and not a fee . The Orissa imposition of the Or  The amount raised through a fee is co-related to the expenses necessary for rendering the services which are the basis of quid pro quo . The amount collected as a fee does not go  A sales tax and a duty of excise are separate and distinct imposts and in law do not overlap . The two concepts are different and, as the Privy Council pointed out,  Ahmedabad v Patel Gordhandas Hargovandas (1). Ahmedabad Bo rough Municipality had levied a rate on open lands and the basis of the levy was one per  If this were permissible many taxes not otherwise leviable would be converted into fees by the simple device of creating a special fund and attaching certain services to be rendered from the amount in that fund  Such an impost can never be justified as a consolidated fee on the ground that it is merely a method of quantification . Sec. 3 of the Act which refers to the services to  The Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 1952, is beyond the constitutional competence of the Orissa Legislature to pass it . The whole Act must be struck down because there will be very