 The appellant appointed the 1st respondent as a Welfare Officer as required by the [Factories Act, 1948] and the Punjab Welfare Officers Recruitment and Conditions of Service Rules, 1952  The basic test of a tribunal within the meaning of Art. 136, is that it is an adjudicating authority (other than a court) vested with the judicial power of the State .  The appellant, the Associated Cement Companies Ltd., Bhupendra Cement Works, Surajpur, challenges the validity of the order passed by respondent No. 2 on July 4,  P. N. Sharma was one of the Welfare Officers appointed by the appellant . He had not proceeded to Kymore on transfer as directed, he had ceased to be in the employment of  A Welfare Officer upon whom the punishment mentioned in clause (v) of sub-rule (3) is imposed may appeal to the State Government against the order of punishment within thirty days from  The approach adopted by both the courts and the tribunals is substantially the same, and there is no essential difference between the functions that they discharge . As in the case of courts,  The case arose out of the dismissal of the appellant Ridge who had been appointed chief constable of a borough police . The House of Lords had to consider the question as to whether the watch  Privy Council held that it did not follow from the words of the relevant Defence Regulation that the controller must be acting judicially in exercising the power . Lord Reid expressed his dis-  The majority decision was in favour of the view that the Industrial Tribunal is a tribunal within the meaning of -Art. 136(1) in the case of The Bharat Bank Ltd.,  The question arose for decision of this Court was whether the Central Government, while it exercises its appellate power Under s 111(3) of the [Companies Act, 1956] (No.  An arbitrator appointed under s. 10A of the [Industrial Disputes Act, 1947] (No. 14 of 1947) can be said to be a tribunal under Art.  The use of the expression "judicial power" in this context proceeds on the well-recognised concept of political science that along with legislative and executive powers, judicial power vests in a  The use of the expression "judicial power" in the context, cannot be characterised as constitutionally impermissible or inappropriate, because our Constitution does not provide, as does Chapter HI of the  The main test in determining the status of any authority in the context of Art. 136(1) is whether or not inherent judicial power of the State has been transferred to it . The  Appeal v. Goyal v. Setalvad argues that the impugned order is invalid for two reasons . He argues the relevant Rule which requires the concurrence of the Labour  Rule 6(6) enables a Welfare Officer to make an appeal to the State Government if punishment has been imposed upon him contrary to the requirements of the proviso to R. 6(  The form in which the impugned order has been passed will not necessarily determine the character of the termination of respondent No. 1's services . No attempt has been made to suggest,  The expression 'Tribunal' as used in article 136 does not mean the same thing as 'Court' but includes, within its ambit, all adjudicating bodies provided they are  The basic test of a tribunal is that it is a body vested with the judicial power of the State . Art. 136 includes within its scope "tribunals adorned with similar tra  An authority deriving its power of adjudication from an agreement of the parties, such as a private arbitrator or a tribunal acting under s. 10-A of the Industrial Disputes  The dispute concerns the civil rights of the management and the Welfare Officer . The State Government is empowered to decide this dispute between the two contending parties . The dispute is whether the action of