 Employers/ managements argue over scope and ambit of the word 'retrenchment' as defined in Section 2(oo) of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 . Work  Difficulty was created by defining 'retrenchment' to mean something wider than what it naturally and ordinarily meant . Such a definition created complexity as the draftsman himself in drafting the other sections  In Sunclara Money and subsequent cases the Supreme Court has adopted wider liberal meaning rejecting the narrow natural and contextual meaning of Section 2(oo) in Hariprasad and Anak  The Supreme Court can lay down the law afresh if two or more of its earlier judgments cannot stand together . The doctrine of ratio decidendi has also to be interpreted in the same  The respondents were workmen under the management of the Corporation and their services were terminated on the ground that the Chairman had no power to appoint them . The Labour Court in its Award held that  The Labour Court set aside the order on the ground of noncompliance with the provisions of s. 25F of the Act and ordered reinstatement with full back wages and continuity of service .  The Government of India issued an Ordinance which later became the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 1953 (Act 43 of 1953) which was deemed to have come into force on  We are referred to contemporaneous interpretation of the word "retrenchment" In Employees of Messrs India Reconstruc- tion Corporation Ltd., Calcutta v. Messers India  An agreement dated August 1, 1895 between the Secre- tary of State for India in Council and the Railway Company . The Secretary of State could purchase and take over the undertaking of  S.K. Das, J. speaking for the Constitution Bench, spoke for the . Constitution Bench . The Court found in it the . definition of 'retrenchment' in s  Hariprasad's case (supra) was decided on November 27, 1956\. The Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Ordinance was promulgated immediately thereafter with effect from December  Supreme Court held that no retrenchment compensation was payable under section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . This was the position which existed prior to the decision of the Supreme  Anakapalla Co-operative Agricultural and Industrial Society Ltd. v. Workmen, [1963] Suppl. 1 SCR 730 . The society employed some of the old  The management can retrench its employees only for proper reasons, the Industrial Court said . The High Court said: "Striking off the name of the workman from the rolls by  Employers argued that when the order of ap- pointment carried an automatic cessatioin of service, the period of employment worked itself out by effluxion of time, not by  Sundara Money's case and subsequent Judgments in the line was in conflict with the ratio in Hariprasad Shuk- la's case (supra) and Anakap  In Re-Dawson's Settlement Lloyds Bank Ltd. v. Dawson and Ors., [1966] 1 WLR 1234, on July 26, 1966 Lord Gard  An analysis of judicial precedent, ratio decidendi and the ambit of earlier and later decisions is to be found in the House of Lords' decision in F.A. & A  In Hariprasad Shivshankar Shukla v. A.D. Divikar, the Su- preme Court took the view that the word 'retrench  The Court was neither called upon to decide nor did it decide whether in a continuing business, retrenchment was confined only to discharge of surplus staff . Lord Halsbury's dicta  The workman was em- ployed in the State Bank of Patiala from July 13, 1973 till August, 1974 when her services were terminated . Management's contention was that term  In a fast developing branch of Industrial and Labour law it may not always be of particular importance to rigidly adhere to a precedent, and a precedent may need be departed from if the basis  The cardinal rule of construction of statute is to read statutes literally, giving to the words their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning . To interpret an Act of Parliament is to give effect to  In Whiteley v. Chappelf, a statute concerned with electoral mal- practices made it an offence to personate 'any person enti- tle to vote' at an  Analysing the definition of retrenchment in s. 2(00) we find that termination by the employer of the service of a workman would not otherwise have covered the cases  Mr Bobde refutes the argument saying that ss. 25F, 25G and 25H relate to retrenchment but their contents are different . The argument is misconceived firstly  Section 25-FFF provides for compensation to workmen in case of closing down of undertak- ings and section 25-H provides for re-employment of retrenched workmen  Traditional theory believes that the statute, applied to a concrete case, can always supply only one correct decision and that the positive--legal 'correct- ness' of this decision is based  Lord Diplock said: "A statute passed to remedy what is perceived by Parliament to be a defect in the existing law may in actual operation turn out to have injurious consequences"