 The High Court allowed the petitions by two separate judgments in respect of the constitutional validity of Regulation 104(3) of the Maharashtra Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Boards Regulations, 1977 . The High  Rule 104(3) of Maharashtra Secondary and 31 Higher Secondary Board Regulations 1977 is valid . Clause (1) of regulation 104 that no revaluation of the answer books or supplements shall  The legislature and its delegates are the sole repositories of the power to decide what policy should be pursued in relation to matters covered by the Act . Any drawbacks in the policy incorporated in a rule  Clause (3) of regulation 104 contains is fact a mandate to the Divisional Boards to treat the answer books and documents as confidential and lays down that no candidate shall be entitled to claim  Bombay High Court in Writ Petition Nos. 1906, 1772, 1799, 1838, 1885, 1923, 1925, 1926, 1996-1998, 2005, 2060-  High Court declared clause (3) of Regulation 14 to be void and allowed the first group of Writ Petitions by directing the Board to allow inspection of the answer books asked for by the  Divisional Board has power to generally evaluate the performance of students in all examinations in secondary schools and junior colleges including the final examination and make necessary recommendations to the State Board in that behalf .  Petitioners had challenged validity of clauses (1) and (3) of Regulation 104 on three grounds . High Court rejected contention that non-disclosure or disallowance of the right  The High Court was of the view that the said contention of the petitioners had to be examined against the back-drop of the fact disclosed by some of the records produced before it .  Section 19 of the Act lays down in clauses (f) and (g) that the Board shall have the power and is under a duty to conduct in the area of its jurisdiction .  High Court cannot sit in judgment over wisdom of the policy evolved by the legislature and the subordinate regulation-making body . The legislature and its delegate are the sole repositories of the power to decide  The State Board is comprised of members who can be reasonably expected to possess intimate knowledge, practical know- how, expertise and experience in all matters pertaining to the field of education-school and  Division Bench of the High Court has strongly relied on an earlier ruling of the same court in Sophy Kelly v. The State . The constitutionality of the impugned regulations has to  The right of inspection does not seem to have been recognised under any system of examination in India and its recognition is bound to unsettle the age old practice followed and notions entertained . The  We are also of the opinion that the High Court was in error in invoking the 'doctrine of implied power and obligation' for the purpose of holding that because the right of verification  The High Court said that in certain stray instances (specific instances referred to in the Judgment are only about three in number), errors or irregularities had gone unnoticed in the past even after verification of  The Court said that clause (3) of Regulation 104 is liable to be struck down on the ground of unreasonableness is totally incorrect and unsustainable . The validity of the prohibition against  High Court has not set out in detail in either of its two judgments relating to the conduct of the examinations, the evaluation of the answer books and the compilation and announcement of the results .  The Board is a very responsible body. The procedure evolved by the Board for ensuring fairness and accuracy in evaluation of the answer books has made the system as fool proof as can be possible .  The High Court was in error in striking down clauses (1) and (3) of Regulation 104 as illegal, unreasonable and void . We uphold the validity of these provisions . Appeals allowed