 The detenus in a jail made a general assault on jail officials and some of those who were removed to the cells resorted to hunger strike; and they were separately-confined .  Appeal by special leave from the Judgment and Order, dated 12th February, 1951, of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Criminal Application No. 644 of 1950 .  The appellant was accused of importing the gold in con- travention of the notification of the Government of India dated the 25th August, 1948 . The gold was found in the possession of  The appellant was treated as the owner of the confiscated gold for all practical purposes . If the Court came to the conclusion that the appellant was prosecuted when proceedings were taken by the Sea Customs Authorities  The Fifth Amendment of the American Constitution enunciated this principle in the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb;nor shall be compelled, in any criminal case,  Section XVI enacts offences and penalties and several offences mentioned in the first column of the schedule to section 167 are made punishable with penalties . Section XVII prescribes the procedure relating to offences  Customs officers are invested with the power of adjudging confiscation, increased rates of duty or penalty . The highest penalty which can be inflicted is Rs. 1,000 and the highest penalty  On the 7th February, 1950, the three detenus petitioners resorted to a hunger strike which continued upto the 10th April, 1950 . They were separately confined from and  The Punjab Communist Party is being put in the same category as the Punjab Communist Detus Rules under rules 40 and 41 . Punishment is only when the Jail Superintendent considers that the offence is  The petitioners were governed by the Punjab 749 Rules, which were framed by the Government of Punjab under section 4(a) of the . Act set out in the . 1950,  The prosecution of Jagjit Singh for the offences under sections 332 and 353 and sections 147 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code is not in violation of article 20 (2) or article 21