 Thirtha SWAMIAR OF SRI SHIRUR MUTT [1954] INSC 46; AIR 1954 SC 282; 1954 SCR 1005 (16 April  Section 76(1) of the Act is void as the provision relating to the payment of annual contribution contained in it is a tax and not a fee . It was beyond the legislative competence  Petition was filed at a time when the Madras Hindu Religion Endowments Act (Act II of 1927) was in force . The petition was filed along with two other petitions of a  Shri Krishna Math is the occasion of a great festival, known as Pariyayam, when a vast concourse of devotees gather at Udipi from all parts of Southern  The Swami was not ready with his objections even on that date as his lawyer had no t recovered from his illness and a telegram was sent to the Board on the 24th of  It is not disputed that a State Legislature is competent to enact laws on the subject of religious and charitable endowments, which is covered by entry 28 of List III in Schedule VII of  Section 25 deals with the preparation of registers of all religious institutions . Section 29 forbids alienation of all immovable properties belonging to the trust .  The learned Judges of the High Court have taken the view that the respondent as Mathadhipati has certain well defined rights in the institution and its endowments which could be regarded as  A superior of a Math has not only duties to discharge in connection with the endowment but he has a personal interest of a beneficial character which is sanctioned by custom . Calcutta High  Article 25 secures to every person, subject to public order, health and morality, a freedom not only to entertain such religious belief, as may be approved of by his judgment and conscience  The High Court has found that the Math in question is in charge of the Sivalli Brahmins who constitute a section of the followers of Madhwacharya . The word "  It appears to be difficult to maintain this distinction as relevant to the interpretation of section 116 . Clause (2)(a) of article 25 reserves the right of the State to regulate or restrict  Two small children were expelled from the public school of Minersville, Pennsylvania, for refusing to salute the national flag . The Gobitis family were affiliated with "Jehova's Witnesses  Australia in the Constitution itself and the language of articles 25 and 26 is sufficiently clear to enable us to determine without the aid of foreign authorities as to what matters come within the purview of  Section 21 empowers Commissioner and his subordinate officers to enter premises of 1031 any religious institution or place of worship for the purpose of exercising any power conferred, or imposed by or under the  Section 29 of the Act is perfectly reasonable and no exception can be taken to it, judges say . Section 30(2) appears to us to be somewhat obscure . Section 31 of the  Section 55 deals with a Mahant's power over his power over Pathakanikas or personal gifts . Section 56 has been rightly invalidated by the High Court .  Section 59 provides scheme for application of the application of cy pres doctrine in case the object of the trust fails either from the inception or by reason of subsequent eve. The Advocate- General for  The contribution payable under section 76 of the Act is a "fee", it may come under entry 47 of the Concurrent List which deals with fees . Article 277 also mentions taxes, cess  A 'fee' is generally defined to be a charge for a special service rendered to individuals by some governmental agency . The amount of fee levied is supposed to be based on the expenses incurred  There is really no generic difference between the tax and fees and as said by Seligman, the taxing power of a State may manifest itself in three different forms known respectively as special assessments  The High Court was right in holding that the contribution levied under section 76 is a tax and not a fee . It is against the policy of the Constitution to pay out of public funds any