 Supreme Court Advocates (Practice in High Courts) Act, 1951, s. 2-Advocate of Supreme Court-Bight to appear in Original Side of Calcutta High  The word " practise" when used with reference to an advocate is an elastic expression having no rigid or fixed connotation and the precise ambit of its contents can be ascertained only by  The non-obstante clause removes only those provisions contained in the Bar Councils Act, 1926, and in any other law, which regulate the conditions subject to which a person not  Aswini Kumar Ghosh is an Advocate of the High Court of Calcutta . He filed a warrant of authority executed in his favour by the second petitioner to defend the latter in  Before the Indian High Courts Act of 1861 (24 and 25 Vic. Ch. 104) was enacted, there were, in the territories subject to the British rule in India, Supreme Courts  The Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926, was enacted in response to a demand by the legal profession for unification and autonomy of the Bar, and it achieved a certain measure of both .  The word "practise" as applied to an Advocate in India includes both the functions of acting and pleading . There is nothing in section 2 to warrant the cutting down of that statutory right  It is legitimate to understand that expression as authorising him to appear and plead as well as to act for suitors in a Court . It seems to be fallacious to relate that expression  In its application to each High Court it will have the meaning which an Advocate's right to practise bears in that Court at 15 the time under the local rules and regulations . This meaning may  Bar Councils Act enacts 14.(1) (a) An Advocate shall be entitled as of right to practise-(a) subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of section  Madras High Court held that a rule excluding Advocates enrolled there from acting the Insolvency Side became invalid and inoperative after the enactment of the Bar Councils Act . The  The right so conferred was subject to the exercise of the power reserved under section 9 (4) Parliament, in conferring a similar right under the new -Act the Supreme Court Advocates  The true scope of the enacting clause must be determined a fair reading of the words used in their natural and ordinary meaning . Section 2 entitles every Advocate of the Supreme Court as of  The Bar Councils Act and section 2 of the new Act entitling an Advocate of the.Supreme Court as of right to practise in any High Court cannot stand together . If such  A Supreme Court Advocate is entitled to, appear and plead and act the Appellate Side of all the High Courts and the question as to how disciplinary jurisdiction is to be exercised over him  An Advocate of the Calcutta High Court can both plead and act the Appellate Side of the Court and plead only its Original Side . Mr. Ghosh later got himself enrolled  The Supreme Court was established in the year 1950 and article 145(1) of the Constitution empowered the Court to make rules "for regulating generally the practice and procedure of the court" The  The word "practise" when used with reference to a profession means "to follow, pursue, work at, or exercise such profession". The profession of an Advocate may contemplate both acting  An Advocate enrolled in the High Court of Madras 'under the Indian Bar Councils Act was entitled not only to appear and plead but also to 'act' in the insolvency  It seems that when section 2 -speaks of a Supreme Court Advocate being entitled as of right to practise in any High Court, what it actually means is 38 that he would, be  The first question is, to what extent the provisions of any existing law have been eliminated by the opening clause of section 2 of the Bar Councils Act . Mr. Justice Chakravart  Bar Councils Act does not make any provision relating to the rights of pleading and acting in the Original Side of any High Court . The rules framed by the High Courts of Calcutta  An Advocate of the Supreme Court will be entitled to plead in the Original Side of the Calcutta High Court as a matter of right and without complying with any of the formalities that  The word "practise" was said to include both pleading and acting, but at the same time the original bill did not purport to confer at all upon the Supreme Court Advocates  Aswini Kumar Ghosh is an advocate of the Calcutta High Court . He is entitled to act and plead the Appellate Side, but only to plead the Original Side  The Rule was heard by a Special Bench of the Calcutta High Court consisting of Harries C.J. and Chakravartti and Banerjee JJ. who discharged the  The Indian High Courts Act, 1861 (24 & 25 Vic C. 104) by section I authorised Her Majesty to erect and establish High Courts for the three Presidencies of Bengal,  At the date of the Act, all advocates of all High Courts including those of the Appellate Side of Calcutta and Bombay High Courts could "appear, act and plead  The full title 'of the Act now under consideration runs thus:"An Act to authorise Advocates of the Supreme Court to practise as of right in any High Court." The words  The High Court has rejected the contention of the petitioner Aswini Kumar Ghosh that punctuation forms no part of the Act . The word "other" in the phrase "any other  Section 8(1) of the Indian Bar Councils A-et provides as follows: "No person shall be entitled as of right to practise in auy HighCourt,unless his  The purpose of the non-obstante clause is to supersede only the provisions of the Indian Bar Councils Act and the rules which regulated those, identical conditions . There can be  There are different categories of lawyers all of whom "practise", although all of them do not do the same thing . The advocates of all High Courts including those of the Appellate  If we give the words "to practise" their ordinary dictionary meaning, then the sub-section will be easy of comprehension . But if we say that those words mean "to act and  The words "to practise" have been used throughout the Indian Bar Councils Act in their general dictionary meaning except at the end of section 9 (4) The word "practising"  Rules 128 and 129 of the Insolvency Rules permitted an advocate only to "appear, act and plead" in'the . Jurisdiction of the Madras High Court  In Queen all advocates "act and plead" and as regards Quebec advocates the critical words may cover both acting and pleading . They are words of indeterminate import and have no fixed con  The Indian Bar Councils Act dealt with advocates enrolled by the High Courts . The High Courts have no power under clause 9 of the Letters Patent to make any rule to govern the conduct and  No statement made the introduction of the measure or its discussion can be looked at as affording any guidance is to the meaning of the words . The first Privy Council decision referred to above  In Gopalan's case Kania C. J. said at p.110: " The report may be read not to control the meaning of the articles, but may be seen  There is no reason to assume that the (1) [[1584] EngR 9]; [(1584) 3 Co. Rep. 7b .81 legislators read the words"  Supreme Court advocate being entitled only "to appear and plead", when section 2 authorised him "to practise" in any High Court, it must be taken to have meant that he was authorised  The Court below has held that the words "whether or not" are not quite apposite and that what was meant was that a right was given to every Supreme Court advocate "to practise  The use of the words "to practise " in relation to an advocate clearly indicates that he is to exercise the profession of an advocate . The Act authorises every advocate of the Supreme Court  Supreme Court advocates have been let loose 'to practise' in all High Courts in all their jurisdictions untramelled by any rules of practice . The Supreme Court advocate cannot practise in vacuo  The Bar Councils' rule-making power under section 15 is limited only to High Court advocates . There is, therefore, no provision of law except section 2 itself which will enable the  The proviso was wholly redundant in view of the constitutional prohibition contained in article 220 . The language of the proviso is inept in that it seems to suggest that if such a Judge had