 The employees of the appellant Bank commenced pen-down strikes, which were followed by a general strike, pending arbitration of an industrial dispute between them . The Government of India intervened and as a  The Court held that the preliminary objections must be negatived and the decision of the Appellate Tribunal affirmed with this modification that, in view of its findings, the appeal of one  Industrial Tribunal has to reconcile conflicting claims of the employer and the employee,-- the latter's right to protection against wrongful dismissal, and in such a case the normal rule is reinstatement .  Appeal of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Calcutta in Appeal No. Cal 70/52. The final decision of the dispute would be reached after we dispose of the  Bank issued notices calling upon all striking members of the staff to report for duty by 10 a.m. on April 24, 1951, and warned them that they had voluntarily ceased to be  The case for the Federation and the Union was that the refusal of the Bank to take back the 150 workmen in question was a part of the concerted and deliberate plan adopted by the management  The Bank attempted to justify dismissal in the present case by urging that the 150 employees were guilty of violent or subversive acts but the appellate tribunal held that it was not open to the Bank at  The appeal preferred by the Bank was dismissed; and it was held that there was no substance in the plea of the Bank that the appellate tribunal had no jurisdiction to direct reinstatement of the  Appeal No. 519 of 1958 has been filed by the Bank against the order of reinstatement in respect of 126 employees represented by the Federation . Civil Appeal . No. 520 of 1958  Whether a 'pen-down' strike of such a character does not contravene the law of the land and is exempted under the Trade Unions Act or the Industrial Disputes Act  Order of dismissal passed against a person who is a member of the Civil Service of the Crown in India without complying with the mandatory relevant provisions of s. 240 of the Government of India Act  The object of s. 33 was to protect the workmen against the victimisation by the employer . The only effect of obtaining permission from the officer concerned was to remove the ban imposed on  The powers of the tribunal to interfere with cases of dismissal are not unlimited because the tribunal does not act as a court of appeal and substitute its own judgment for that of the management . The  An employee aggrieved by a wrongful order of dismissal passed against him in contravention of s. 33 is given a right to move the tribunal in redress of his grievance without having to take  Tribunal has jurisdiction to direct reinstatement of dismissed employees . Tribunal has to deal with the question of contravention of s. 33A and the merits of the order of dismissal . Tribunal also  Employers should have held an enquiry before passing an order of dismissal, but Bank has not done so in the case . Court says the issue about merits of the impugned order  Leave granted to the Bank must first be examined . Some of the appeal grounds are vague and they are urged on assumptions of fact which run counter to the findings recorded by the appellate tribunal .  Bank argues that by virtue of their employment the employees had a licence to enter the premises of the Bank but this licence is subject to the condition that the employees are willing to carry out their  The distinction between knowledge and intention is quite clear, and that distinction must be borne in mind in deciding whether or not in the present case the strikers were actuated by the requisite intention .  The Bank relies upon the majority decision in support of its contention that its employees who participated in the pen-down strike are not entitled to reinstatement . An acrimonious dispute had  No analysis of a sit-down strike can claim a broad view of the subject, says labor, without a full measure of consideration of the infamous Mohawk Valley methods used by Remington  Both parties submit their disputes to be resolved in accordance with the provisions of the Act . Bank v. Burn & Co. v. Their Workmen (1) mere participation in such an  The application of the doctrine of conspiracy to the decision of the present dispute may have far-reaching consequences on the future of the trade union movement . In industrial adjudication tribunals should  The Bank is not justified in contending that in excluding 136 employees from the responsibility of direct participation in the drafting and publication of the subversive circulars and hand-bills the appellate tribunal  The Bank apparently relied upon other evidence against these five persons, and not the report of Dina Nath, and that evidence has been disbelieved, 853 Mr. Anand . The