 Keshav Singh moved a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution challenging his committal as being in breach of big fundamental rights; he also prayed for interim bail . The High Court  A preliminary objection as to the competency of the Reference was raised on the ground that it did not relate to any of the matters covered by the President's powers and duties under the Constitution  The advisory opinion rendered by the Court in the present Reference proceedings was not adjudication properly so- called, and would bind no parties as such . The power to interpret that Article lay under  The view taken in Sharma's case that the laws defining the powers and privileges of the legislatures under the first part of Art. 194(3) would be subject to Art. 13 and  Sharma v. Sharma: Indian State Legislatures were not at any time in their history, either under the Constitution Act, or under the Indian Independence Act, 1947, intended to be courts  It 'was also' doubtful whether the power to issue a general up-spcaking warrant was consistent with s. 554(2)(b) and s.555 of the  A Judge of a High Court who entertains or deals with a petition challenging any order or decision of a Legislature imposing any penalty on the petitioner (who is not a member of the Legislature  The power to commit by a general warrant with the consequent deprivation of the jurisdiction of -the courts was, one of the privileges of the House of Commons . That privilege was possessed by  The majority in Sharma's case no doubt said without discussion that the law under Art. 194(3) would be subject to all fundamental rights, but that is so only because Art.  The question as to bringing them in custody before the House did not arise on the facts of the case . The Full Bench was competent to entertain the petition of the two Judges and B.  A.C. Mitra and D.N. Mukherjee, for Hon'ble the Chief Justice, Madhya Pradesh High Court. P.P. Singh, S.  The President has formulated five questions for the opinion of this Court under Article 143(1) of the Constitution . Article authorises the President to refer to this Court questions of law or fact  The two learned Judges heard about this resolution on the radio on the evening of March 21, and read about it in the morning edition of the Northern India Patrika published on March 22,  A Full Bench of the Allahabad High Court consisting of 28 Judges took up on the same day the petitions presented before them by their two colleagues at Lucknow . To these petitions were imp  The questions referred to this Court under this Reference read as follows :- (1) Whether, on the facts and circumstances of the case, it was competent for the Lucknow Bench of  The validity of the objection raised by Mr. Varma must be judged in the light of the words of Art. 143(1) themselves and these words are of such wide amplitude that  The President took the view that a case for reference for the advisory opinion of this Court had been established and he accordingly formulated, five questions and has forwarded the same to us for our advisory  The Allahabad High Court is not exercising what may be described as its judicial function . There are no parties before the Court in such a reference and there is no his. The opinion expressed  The right to determine questions of contempt and to decide adequacy of punishment for the said contempt belong exclusively to the House of Commons . This agreement shows that the right to decide . questions of  Mr. Setalvad says the Constitution has resolved the problem of dualism in our country by 439 conferring on the High Courts and this Court the jurisdiction to deal with claims  Dispute centers on jurisdiction of High Court to entertain a habeas corpus petition even in cases where a general or unspeaking warrant has been issued by the House directing detention of the party  Clause (1) confers freedom of speech on the legislators within the legislative chamber . Clause (2) emphasises the fact that the said freedom is intended to be absolute and unfet  An attempt win have to be made to resolve the said conflict by the adoption of the rule of harmonious construction . Clause (1) of Art. 194 refers to the laws in force  In a democratic country governed by a written Constitution, it is the Constitution which is supreme and sovereign . The supremacy of the constitution is fundamental to the existence of a federal State .  Adjudication of such a dispute is entrusted solely and exclusively to the Judicature of this country . We feel no difficulty in holding that the decision about the construction of Art. 194  Mr. Seervai's argument is that the latter part of Art. 194(3) expressly provides that all the powers which vested in the House of Commons at the relevant time,  Pandit Sharma v Nafisul Hasan and the State of U.P. (1) argued that Art. 194(3) had not been made subject to the provisions of  The majority decision, therefore, must be taken to have settled that Art. 19(1)(a) would not apply, and Art. 21 would . Art. 22(2)  The majority decision expressed in the case of Pandit Sharma(1) read with Entry 39 of List IT . The enactment of such a law cannot be said to be in exercise of a  Keshav Singh claims certain fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution . He seeks to move the High Court under Art. 226 on the ground that his fundamental rights have been contraven  Art. 211 amounts to an absolute constitutional prohibition against any discussion in the Legislature of a State in respect of the judicial conduct of a Judge of this Court or of the High Court . Art  The Court was dealing with the effect of the provisions contained in Art. 320 of the Constitution . It was held that the provisions of this clause were not mandatory and did not confer any right  The conduct of a Judge in relation to the discharge of his duties cannot legitimately be discussed inside the, House, though if it is, no remedy lies in a court of law . Such  In order to determine the validity of these rival contentions, it is now necessary to consider very briefly what was the . position of this particular power and privilege at the commencement of the .  Freedom of speech is a privilege essential to every free council or legislature, and that is claimed by both the Houses as a basic privilege . The right to exclude strangers, the right to control  Maitland, in his introduction to the Parliament Roll of 1305, was the King's "great court" and was thereby (among other things) the highest court of royal justice  The origin of this power is to be found naturally in the medieval conception of Parliament as a court of justice . The House of Lords undoubtedly possessed the power of commitment by at least as good  The points of view adopted by the Parliament and the courts appeared to be irreconcilable . The courts claimed the right to decide or themselves when it became necessary to do so in proceedings  The courts have always, at any rate in the last resort, refused to interfere in the application by the House of Commons . The Earl of Shaftesbury was committed to the Tower  The House of Commons declared that the said judgment was "illegal, a violation of the privileges of Parliament, and pernicious to the rights of Parliament" Acting on this view the two  Holt C.J., however, dissented from the majority opinion and expressed his views in somewhat strong language . His conclusion was that if it be a matter with the jurisdiction of the Court  In 1750. Murray was committed to prison by the House of Commons for refusing to kneel . A petition for habeas corpus was moved before the Court was rejected on the ground  Sir Francis Burdett's case arose out of an action of trespass against the Speaker of the House of Commons for breaking and entering his house, and imprisoning him in the Tower .  The case seems to establish the position that a warrant issued by the House of Commons was treated as a . superior Court and as such, the courts in Westminster Hall could not go behind it  The Sheriffs of Middlesex levied for that amount, but were served with the resolutions passed by the House . They delayed the payment of the money to Stockdale as long as possible .  The last case in this series to which we ought to refer is the decision of the Queen's Bench Division in Bradlaugh v. Bradlaugh . The House of Lords which is a part  No precedent has been or can be produced in which any Court has ever interfered with the internal affairs of either House of Parliament, though the cases are no doubt numerous in which the Courts have  Mr Seervai relied on a Privy Council decision made by Lord Cairns in Fielding and Others v Thomas(1) In that case, the question about the extent of  The Queen v. Richards(1) was called upon to construe provisions of s.49 which are similar to the provisions of Art. 194(3) of our Constitution . The  The right to move this Court for breach of their fundamental rights is itself a fundamental right . Art. 32 confers on the citizens of India the fundamental right to . move (1)  There is no provision in the Australian Constitution corresponding to Art. 211 of ours . These distinctive features contribute to make a substantial difference in the meaning and denotation of similar words used in the  Section 71 of the same Act deals with Pro vincial Legislatures and contains similar provisions in clauses (2, (3) and (4) of section 71 . Section 28 (4  A Court of Record is a court where of the acts and judicial proceedings are enrolled for a perpetual memory and testimony . The House, and indeed all the Legislative Assemblies in India never  The impact of the fundamental constitutional right conferred on Indian citizens by Art. 32 on the construction of the latter part of Art. 194(3) is decisively against the view that a power  The inalienable right to which Viscount Simonds referred is implicit in the provisions of Art. 226 and Art. 32, and its existence is clearly incon- sistent with  The King v. Secretary of State for Home Affairs, Ex parte O'brien v. Keshav Singh, can have no relevance or materiality in determining the main question  The construction of this part of the article is within the jurisdiction of the High Court . We were told that similar resolutions have been adopted by almost all the Legislatures in India . But these  The validity of the order has no relation whatever with the question as to whether in passing the order, the Judges have committed contempt of the House . The House did not conform to the uniform  The Judges, the Advocate, and the party have committed contempt by reference to their conduct in the habeas corpus petition pending before the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court .  The High Court had ordered the release on bail of a person whom the Assembly had committed to prison for contempt . The Assembly considered that the action of the Judges making the order and of the  On March 19, 1964, B. Solomon presented a petition to a Bench of the High Court of Uttar Pradesh for a writ of habeas corpus for the release of Keshav  The main question 'in this reference is whether the Assembly has the privilege of committing a person to prison for contempt by general warrant, that is, without stating the facts, which constituted the  Privileges of the House of Commons have a technical meaning in English Parliamentary Law . They are ancillary to the main functions of the Commons . Some privileges rest solely upon the law  The power to commit to prison for contempt can only be possessed by a judicial body, namely the courts, not by a legislative body like the Assembly . The High Court contended that the power  Das C.J., delivered the majority judgment of the constitution bench consisting of five Judges and Subba -Rao J. delivered his own dissenting opinion . It was, therefore, held  It is not claimed by the Assembly that it is a superior court and has, therefore, a power to commit for contempt by a general warrant . I would find nothing to justify such a  In Anson's Law of the Constitution, 5th ed. May observes at p. 90, "Whether the House of Commons be, in law, a court of record, it  The right to commit by a general warrant is a privilege of the House of Commons, not a right possessed by it as a superior court . Lord Cairns rejected this argument with the  The real question for our decision is whether the House of Commons possessed a certain privilege . We may either have to take judicial notice of that privilege or decide its existence as a matter of foreign  Lord Denman C.J. said in the case of Stockdale v. Hansard that the House of Commons was a court . Littledale J. and Patteson J  Lord Eldon said that "in truth, the House is not a Court of Law at all" Coleridge J. at p. 427 expressly affirms all that had been said  Stephen J. said, "The House of Commons is not a Court of justice" He said the right to commit by a general warrant is not possessed by the House because it is a  It is not for us to start new ideas about the privileges of the House of Commons, ideas which had not ever been imagined in England . Our job is not to start an innovation as  The majority held that the . State Legislatures shall have the powers and privileges of the English House of Commons while Art. 19 (1) (a) states that every citizen shall have  Sharma's case(1) [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. .R. 806.527 It is not done by cutting the gordian knot  The argument that since the laws made under Art. 194(3) are subject to fundamental rights, so must the privileges conferred by the second part of cl. (3) be,  The majority in Reddy v. Nafisul Hassan held the arrest of (1) A.I. Ram Reddy under the Speaker's order for breach of privilege of the  Sharma's case was concerned with the conflict between Art. 19 (1) (a) and the privilege of the House under the second part of Art. 194(3) to prohibit  Both the minority and the majority judgments were unable to accept these arguments . The question in that case concerned the power to affect a citizen's freedom of speech outside the House and cls.  Lucknow Bench was certainly competent to deal with . ,habeas corpus petitions generally . The only point raised by the Assembly is that it has no jurisdiction to . deal with such petitions when  It would not be competent for the Assembly to find the Hon'ble Judges and B. Solomon to be guilty of contempt without giving them a hearing . As it has power to commit for  It was said on behalf of the High Court that even assuming that a Judge can commit contempt of a House, he has fully immunity . This was put first on the scheme of the Constitution  I strongly feel that it would serve the interest of our country much better not to answer this question especially as it has really not arisen . I regret that instead of showing restraint which the occasion  It would be defeatism to take the view that in our country men would not be available to work these powers smoothly and in the best interests of the people . parallel powers should exist in