 1990 SC 1927; 1989 (1) Suppl.SCR 623; 1990 (1), 1990 SCC 109; 1989 SCC (4) 267; 1989 JT 267  Petitions against the judgment and order of this Court dated 19th December, 1979 in State of U.P. etc. v. Synthetic and Chemicals Ltd. and Ors  Union of India contended that the legislative competence of the State enactments in the var- ious States would have to be determined by reference to Entries 7, 52, 59, 84  There was no dichotomy between Ethyl Alcohol, to be used for beverages and for industrial purposes, and in any case the levy was on manufacture . The words 'alcoholic liquor'  The relevant provisions of the U.P Excise Act, 1910, A.P. Excise . Act, 1968, Tamil Nadu Act, and Bombay Prohibi- tion Act  It has to be inter- preted that the Constitution must be interpreted as the organic document in the light of the experience gathered . Each general word should extend to all anciliary or  Ethyl alcohol (95%) is not alcoholic liquors for human consumption but can be used as raw material input after processing and substantial dilution in the production of whisky, Gin, Country  The Indian Constitution does not recognise police power as such . But, the exercise of sovereign power, which gives the State sufficient authority to enact any law, subject to the limitations of the Constitution  After 1956 amendment to Industries (Develop- ment and Regulation) Act, 1951 . Control of this industry has vested exclusively in the Union . No privi- lege for manufacture even if  The provisions are, therefore, declared to be illegal and invalid prospectively . The Respondent-States are re- strained from enforcing the said levy any further but they will not be liable  The doctrine of privilege is difficult to reconcile with when this privilege of trad- ing in commodities injurious to health and dangerous to life is examined especially in the context of Article 21 and Article  There are writ petitions, civil appeals and review petitions relate to the right of the States to levy vend fee or duties in respect of industrial alcohol under different legislations in different States . The  These are directed against the judgment and order of this Court dated 19th December, 1979 in State of U.P., etc. v. Synthetics & Chemicals Ltd. & Or  The only well-known industrial sectors in India were iron and steel, textiles, jute and cement . After independence, an Industrial Policy Resolution was adopted to achieve 643 rapid industrial  The writ petition was filed by M/s. Synthetics & Chemicals Ltd.--a registered Company in Bombay, and one Mr. A.K. Roy, Director and shareholder of  The Indian Parliament passed the Indian Independence Act, 1947 making provisions for the setting up in India of two independent dominions . The Constituent Assembly of each of the new dominions was  By virtue of the Constitution of India which came into effect from 26th January, 1950 the powers of legislation in respect of alcohol were distributed between list I and list II of the 7th  Industrial alcohol is said to be one of the basic raw- materials for the manu- facture of synthetic rubber . In the new rule, vend fee @ Rs.10 per bulk  The State of U.P. filed an appeal against the decision of the Allahabad High Court in writ petition No. 8069/72 . Wholesale dealers in denat  The exclusive power of the State to provide for manufacture, distribution, sale and possession of intoxicat- ing liquors is vested in the State . The power to regulate the notified industries  There is no fundamental right to do trade or business in intoxicants. The State under its regulatory powers, has the right to prohibit absolutely every form 654 of activity in relation to  There was an application challenging the purchase tax . The State of U.P. filed an appeal against the judgment and order dated 24th March, 1973 of the Allahabad High Court in  The Andhra Pradesh Excise Act No. XVII of 1968 received the assent of the President on 26th August, 1968 . The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act is also chal-  It was submitted by the Union of India that there are no grounds for overruling Balsara's case (supra) decided in 1951 after 38 years . Only question which has to  Parliament will have power to levy on all alcohol taxes not covered by any other entries in lists I and II . Parliament has exclusive legislative competence in relation to industries . State Legislature has power to  One bottle of spirit of Rs.1.50 on renaturing yields a profit of Rs.-25 to 30 at least . According to the counsel appearing in support of the levy,  It has to be stated in view of the language used in the specific provisions the levy is not on the manufacture of alcohol as such, therefore, in our opinion, these levies cannot  Counsel for the State emphasised the significant omission of the expression "fit for" What is required is intoxicating liquor and/or alcoholic liquor for human consumption, according to counsel for the  The Indian Constitution as a sovereign State has power to legislate on all branches except to the limita- tion as to the division of powers between the Centre and the States . The Indian  By virtue of Art. 47 of the Constitution the State may impose absolute prohibition in respect of intoxicating liquor . In such a case, the State is authorised to deny a citizen the right  The Act falls within the legislative competence of the Andhra Pradesh State Legisla- ture by virtue of entries 8 and 51 of list II and entry 33 of list III of the 7  It was contended that it has been accepted by this Court that the police power is exercisable for regulation of an activity of a legislature within the permissible field or impost as regulatory measure .  Mr. Trivedi, learned Addi- tional Advocate-General further submitted that entry 52 of list I is an exceptional entry . It not only prescribes the field of legislation  The power to legislate is given by Art. 246 and other Articles of the Constitution . The three lists of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution are legislative heads or fields of legislation .  In Indian Mica & Micanite India v. State of Bihar, (supra), a bench of five Hon'ble Judges stated as under: "It is clear that imp  In Om Prakash v Giriraj Kishore, the learned Chief Justice Venkataramiah J. held that no tax can be levied in the guise of a fee  Fazal Ali, J. in Balsara's case (supra) said "intoxicating liquor" must mean liquor which is consumable by human being as it is  The Synthetics & Chemi- cals Ltd. 's case (supra) was not correct on this aspect . The doctrine of precedent does not compel your Lordships to follow  After 1956 amendment to the IDR Act, control of the industry has vested exclusively in the Union . No privi- lege for manufacture even ii one existed, has been trans-  The writ petitions and appeals are dis- posed of accordingly . This will not affect any regulating measure as such . We prospectively declare these imposts to be illegal and invalid, but  Entry 84 in List I reads: "84. Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India ex- cept-- 685 (a) alcoholic liquors  The State Legislature had no authority to levy duty or tax on alcohol which is not for human consumption as that could only be levied by the Centre . The main theme of the argument was that  Article 21 of the Indian Constitution reads: "No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law" Article 47 of our Constitution says: "The  The main theme of the argument on behalf of the States has been that they have imposed levies because the alcohol which is not for human consumption is a commodity which could be easily converted into