 Fazal Ali and A. Varadarajan, J. (J) CITATION: 1981 AIR 1786; 1982 SCR 187; 1981 (4) S  It is indisputable that any final judgment passed by the trial Judge amounts to a decree and under the provisions of the Letters Patent an appeal lies to a larger bench . Letters Patent itself does  The word 'judgment' has not been defined in the Letters Patent but whatever test may be applied the order passed by the trial Judge appealed against must have the traits and trappings of  The Court reviewed the entire case law on the subject laying down various tests to determine what a judgment is . The test for determining as to when an order passed by a trial Judge can be  The word 'judgment' has a concept of finality in a broader and not a narrower sense . A final judgment decides all the questions or issues in controversy so far as the trial  If the effect of the order, if not complied with, is to terminate the proceedings, the said order would amount to a judgment . An order in an independent proceeding which is anc  Section 3 has no bearing on the point in issue and does not create any bar to the competence and maintainability of an appeal from an order passed by a single Judge on the original side  The Letters Patent, by clause 15, confers a right of appeal against a 'judgment' An order appealable under clause 15 of the Letters Patent becomes appealable because the concerned  The significance of the word 'judgment' assumes a special importance in those High Courts which have ordinary civil jurisdiction depending on valuation of the suit or action . The other High Courts do not  There is a cleavage of opinion on the meaning of the word 'judgment' as it occurs in clause 15 of the Letters Patent of the Calcutta High Court and in the  The learned counsel for the respondents argued that s. 104 read with order 43 Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure should not apply to any order passed by the Trial Judge under any of  Section 591 clearly provided that except the orders mentioned in s. 588 no further appeal could lie from any order passed by any court in exercise of its original or appellate jurisdiction . Pri  The Privy Council intended to lay down clearly that s. 588 did not affect nor was it inconsistent with the provisions of the Letters Patent and hence those orders of the Trial Judge which  An appeal shall lie from the following orders, and save as otherwise expressly provided in the body of this Code or by any law for the time being in force, from no other orders .  The Code of Civil Procedure merely provides for a forum and if order 43 Rule 1 applies to a Trial Judge then the forum created by the Code would certainly include a forum within the High Court  An earlier version of this article stated that Shankarlal Aggarwal's case (supra) was decided by Mr. Sorabjee that there is no inconsistency between the Letters Patent  Madras High Court in Rajgopal's case (supra), relying on the decision of the Bombay High Court, observed thus: . An order passed under s. 592 of  In the first place, once s. 104 applies and there is nothing in the Letters Patent to restrict the application of s 104 to the effect that even if one appeal lies to the Single  Allahabad High Court in Ram Sarup's case (supra) refused to follow a Division Bench decision in Piari Lal v Madan Lal and also tried to explain away the Full  The Madras case heavily relied on the decision of the Privy Council in Hurrish Chunder Chowdry's case . In Chappan's case (supra) the Court on  The appeal is competent under Clause (c), R, R, 1, O 43 of the Civil Procedure Code . The effect of s. 104 of the Code of 1908 is not to  Section 588 of the Code of Civil Procedure gives the right of appeal against any order of the description specified therein . There is no Court of Appeal constituted to hear it, if such order  An identical view seems to have been taken by Sir Page, C.J. in a Full Bench decision of the Rangoon High Court in In re: Dayabhai Jiw  A close analysis of this decision would reveal that the Judges followed a fallacious process of reasoning . The Division Bench relied on a judgment of Sir Basil Scott and Hayward, JJ. al Mar  Bombay High Court held that no appeal against an order passed by a Trial Judge under s 202 of the Companies Act would lie to a Division Bench in view of the Letters Patent .  The question of an appeal from one Court to another Court is governed by the Code of Civil Procedure . We are not satisfied that s. 104 or O. 43 ever intended to deal with  The learned Judges have not correctly appreciated the decision of the Privy Council which has nowhere indicated that order 43 Rule I would not apply to internal appeals in the High Court . The right of  The learned Judge says that s. 104 bars a second appeal from the order and that the Code of Civil Procedure makes no provision for appeal within the High Court . We hold that the learned  The High Court seems to have relied heavily on the decision of the Privy Council in Hurrish Chunder Chowdry's case (supra) and on Chappan's case .  Madras High Court held in no uncertain terms that s. 588 applied to the High Court and orders mentioned therein passed by a Trial Judge would be appealable to a larger Bench .  A very narrow view was taken by a Division Bench 239 Of the Calcutta High Court in the case of The Justice of the Peace for Calcuttta (supra) in  The test is, not what the form of the adjudication is, but what is its effect in the suit or proceeding in which it is made . In Lea Badin's case  Chief Justice seems to have fallen into the error of equating the word 'judgment' with 'decree' as used in the Code of Civil Procedure . We are unable to hold  The correct test seems to lie somewhere in between the tests laid down by Sir Couch and Sir White, C.J. in Tuljaram Row's case . Calcutta High Court  An important test that can be spelt out is that where an order which is the foundation of the jurisdiction of the Court or one which goes to the root of the action, it doubtless  In State of U.P. v. Vijay Anand Maharaj, the order impugned passed by the Single Judge was an order dismissing an application filed by the applicant to  The word 'judgment' does not include every possible order, final, preliminary or interlocutory passed by a Judge of the High Court . The Code of Civil Procedure defines 'jud  The word 'judgment' has undoubtedly a concept of finality in a broader and not a narrower sense . The intention of the givers of the Letters Patent was that the word '  Rangoon High Court held Shanti Kumar's case (supra), as discussed above . The Court said that every interlocutory order cannot be regarded as a judgment but only those  We would like to adopt and approve and approve of generally the tests laid down by Sir White, C.J. in Tuljaram Row's case (supra) We do not  The only question is whether an order passed by a Single Judge on the original side of the Bombay High Court refusing to grant an injunction or to appoint a receiver in an interlocutory application  A learned single Judge dealing with the application of the appellant on the original side of the Bombay High Court dismissed the said application . The appellant preferred an appeal to the High Court of Bombay .  Mr. Sorabjee has argued that an appeal is a creature of statute and in the absence of any 263 statutory provisions making any other appealable no appeal will A normally lie against any  Bombay High Court has been that the provisions of S. 104 and of order 43 of the Code of Civil Procedure do not apply to the original side . Mr. Sorabjee argues that  Mr. Sorabjee has submitted that this Court should lay down the guidelines or enumerate the principles to remove the confusion and resolve the conflict in the sphere of judicial determination as 267 to  S. 3 of the Code provides that for the purpose of this Code, the District Court is subordinate to the High Court, and every Civil Court of a grade inferior to that of a  S. 118: Where any such High Court considers it necessary that a decree passed in the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction should be executed before the amount of 271 the costs incurred in the  S.3 of the Code has really no bearing on the question and creates no bar to the competence and maintainability of an appeal from an order passed by a Judge on the original side  Ss. 16, 17 and 20 of the Code shall not apply to the High Court in the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction . Part X which deals with rules and manner of framing  The right to appeal against judgments did not amount to decrees under the Letters Patent, was therefore not affected by s. 104(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 .  Sri Aushotosh Mookherji in his judgment in the same case at pp. 364-365 held as follows: "In my judgment, the Code and the rules do  In the case of Lea Badin v. Upendra Mohan Roy Chaudhry, a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court held at p. 37 as follows  An order which may be appealable under cl. IS of the Letters Patent as a 'judgment' becomes appealable as Letters Patent confers on the litigant a right of  In the Letters Patent itself, there is no definition of the word 'judgment' The expression has necessarily to be construed and interpreted in each particular case .