 The Zamindari Abolition & Land Reforms Act, 1950, gave the right, title and interest of all intermediaries in every estate to the State . Section 117(1)  A larger circle of persons can move the court for the protection of defence or enforcement of a civil right or to ward off or claim compensation for a civil wrong, even if they are not  The State of Uttar Pradesh and the Gaon Sabha of Bedpura claimed common but alternative reliefs . The suit was for injunction or ejectment, on title, of the sole defendant  The High Court declined to go the whole hog with the defendant but granted the plea to the limited degree of giving all the structures and a space of 5 yards running round each 'build-  Section 6 sets out the legal consequences of such vesting more specifically . Section 9 provides for settlement, under the State, of some kind's of landed interests in existing owners or occupiers  The various provisions of Chapter VII, have been invested with legal viability right to own and hold property, to transfer and otherwise deal with movables and immovables and manage their landed assets  The High Court says the State has no legal interest in the preservation of that over which it has continuous power of operation, creation and deprivation . Government, despite vesting estates in Gaon  The High Court has sought some Engilsh judicial backing for taking liberties with strict and pedantic construction . In the instant case the Act contemplates taking over of all zamindari  A legal injury creates a remedial right in the injured person . But a larger circle of persons can move the court for the protec- tion of defence or enforcement of a civil right  'Locus standi' has a larger ambit in current legal semantics than accepted, individualistic jurisprudence of old . Citizen organisations have recently been compaigning for using  The key to the dispute lies in ascer- taining whether land on which the cattle fair was being held was appurtenant to the buildings or not on the strength of its  Admissibility in evidence in evidence is a bar to writ jurisdiction under Art 226 of the Constitution . Appeal against acquittal of an offence of possession of liquor was set aside . Admiss  The Indian Easements Act 1882--Sec.52-62(c) --Revocation of licence by efflux of time--Presiden- cy Small Causes Courts Act, 18  The Indian Civil Services (Co-operation Branch) Government of Andhra Pradesh and Ors. v. Sri D. Janardhana Rao and Anr7027027022\.  Art.-- 136 Practice and Procedure- Whether a Court of Criminal Appeal-- Whether can interfere with concurrent findings of fact--Interference when grave and substantial injustice . Art. 226--High Court  Arun Kshetrapal v. Registrar, High Court, Jabalpur & Anr982\. 1971, S.19(1)(b)--Finding of committal  The Constitution of India provides an overview of Indian law . The Constitution provides a legal framework for Indian courts .  The Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay 638.3\. S.9--Irrevocable rent--If could be deducted from income from property of only one year-Exemption  GSR 486 u/s 1(2) of Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (59 of 1958) gazetted on 21-4-62 Whether the whole of  The Municipal Corpn. of the City of Ahmedabad and Anr71 LEGAL ENTITY [See Railways Act, 1890] 419 LIMITATION for rectification under the U  New Delhi house rent control order 1939--C1. Standard rent of house fixed in 1944--Rateable value enhanced on the basis of rent received in 1966 . Housing rating should be correlated  Supreme Court will not entertain a complaint on facts and interfere with a finding of facts by the appellate Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India . Duty of High Court when there is conflict  Illegal payment of gratuity in the past will not affect legal claims to Provident Fund, Hindu Law 988 says Hindu Law . Illegal payment in past will no longer affect claims for Prov  Hindu Law -- Joint Hindu Undivided family -- Whether a junior member of the family can act as Karta with the consent of all the other members, if the senior member gives up  The General Secretary of India v. Sita Barniswal v. Provinces Oreganes Orevines Manganese Co. Ltd. v. Smt. Kamh  High Court cannot interfere with a finding .of fact based upon relevant circumstances and when it is not shown to be perverse--The Constitution of India, Article 226.2 9\. -- Vest