 The State of Maharashtra represented by the Education Department - the appellant in both the appeals- filed special leave petitions against the common Judgment and Order of the High Court of Judicature of Bombay  The pension-cum-gratuity scheme in favour of the staff of non-Government law colleges with effect from 1.10.1982 on such staff exercising their option in writing within  The High Court was in error in assuming that other non-Government private professional colleges like Engineering Colleges, Medical Colleges, etc. were given the benefit of grants-in-aid scheme .  There has been an increase in demand for legal education in Maharashtra . The Government recognised non-Government law colleges in Maharashtra is the only faculty which is denied the above grant-in-aid  The total budget for the State in the year 1987-88 was Rs. 5,351 crores, out of which Rs. 791 crores had been earmarked for expenditure for  Out of the total budget for the year 1988-89, a sum of Rs.1,033.74 crores was earmarked for educational purposes . For technical education (Polytechn  The Government of Maharashtra was affording grant-in-aid to the non-Government Engineering, Technical and Technological colleges and polytechnics . Engineering and Medical College (professional College)  A plea was taken in the High Court that the petitioner has no right to seek a writ of mandamus under Article 226 of the Constitution basing his relief on a directive principle contained in  The right to free legal aid and speedy trial are guaranteed fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution . The preamble to the Constitution of India assures `justice, social, economic and  A sole Government law college cannot cater to the needs of legal education in a city like Bombay . Lack of sufficient colleges called for the establishment of private law colleges . If the State is unable  The pension-cum- gratuity scheme in favour of the staff of non-Government law colleges with effect from April 1, 1995 on such staff exercising their option, on notice being served