 Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973: Section 9 (Prior to its amendment by Act No. 11 of 1979) Section 9(1)(b) (As amended by H  The High Court allowed the petitions hold- ing section 9(1)(b) of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act 1973 . The petition was challenging the validity of the . validity  Food Corporation of India was procuring food- grains from farmers through commis- sion agents in tile mandis of Haryana and despatching them to its own branches in the  Section 9(1)(b) is a tax on despatch of goods outside the territory of the State of Haryana . The levy has no direct connection with the transaction of purchase  Haryana v. Stephen & Co. Quilon v. Mysore v. Mukunda Murari Chakravari, [1967] 1 SCR 548], followed .  Section 13-AA of the Bombay Sales Tax Act 1959 is not violative of Article 301 . The provisions of constitutional changes have to be construed not in a narrow isolationism but on a  The nomenclature of the Act is not conclusive and for determining the true character and nature of a particular tax, the Court will look into its pith and substance . The doctrine  The 'taxable event', if one might use the expression often used in this context, is the consignment of the manu- factured goods and not the purchase . Section 9  Goodyear India Ltd. was engaged at all relevant times, inter alia, in the manufac- ture and sale of automobile tyres and tubes . It manufactured the said tyres  The Punjab and Haryana High Court held that a mere despatch of goods out of the State by a dealer to his own branch does not come within the ambit of the phrase  High Court referred to the dictionary meaning of 'disposes of' in Webster's Third New Internation- al Dictionary . The High Court held that that case was no warrant for con-  Bata India Ltd. v. The State of Haryana & Anr. has been reported in 1983 . The High Court held that "mere despatch of goods to a place  The High Court was of the view that neither the original purchase of goods nor the manufacture thereof into the end- product by itself attracts purchase tax and consequently are not even remotely the taxable events  The 46th Amendment of the Constitution sought to check the same by imposing restrictions on the States' power with regard to levy tax on the sale or pur- chase of goods under Art.  The High Court found that the real taxing event is the despatch of the manufactured goods to a place outside the, State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of  It is well-settled that what is the taxable event or what necessitates taxation in an appropriate Statute, must be found out by construing the provisions . Constitution is not  Purchase-tax was introduced in Punjab for the first time by the East Punjab General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1958 . Punjab State Reorganisation Act, 1966, therefore,  The State of Tamil Nadu v. Kandaswami, (supra), was at once a charging as well as a remedial provision . The true test must always be the language  It was contended by Rajaram Agarwala that clause (b) of Section 9(1) dealt with non-exempted goods purchased in the State, used in the manufacture  The main test for determining the taxable event is that on the happening of which the charge is affixed . The liability to pay tax under this section does not accrue on purchasing the goods  The Supreme Court upheld the Kerala High Court's decision in Malabar Fruit Products, (supra), which was confined to the words 'goods' the sale or purchase under the  In Ganesh Prasad Dixit's case (supra) the question of constitutional validity was not argued . The decision of the Kerala High Court in Yusuf Shabeer  It is well settled that the nomenclature of the Act is not conclusive and for 544 determining the true character and nature of a particular tax, with reference to the legislative competence  Section 24(3) was introduced by the Haryana Act with retrospective effect from May 27, 1971 . No higher rate except the old rate admissible factually would be applica  State of Haryana v. Bata Co. Ltd. v. H.Hipro Products v. Hindustan Lever Ltd. and Wipro products v. W  Wipro Products Ltd. and Hindustan Lever Ltd. are contending that the levy is bad . The issue involved in both the appeals is the validity and legality of the provisions  The High Court was of the opinion that the additional purchase tax leviable under section 13-AA of the Bombay Act, is on the purchase value of VNE oil used in the manufacture  A taxing event is that event the occurrence of which immediately attracts the levy or the charge of tax . The court said the taxable event is not the purchase of goods as such which is the  The goods which are purchased on payment of purchase tax are used in the manufacture of taxable goods and despatched outside the State . Mr. S.K. Dholakia, appearing  The rates prescribed in Schedule C are as under:Schedule 'C' Part Minimum Rate Maximum Rate I 2% 4% II 6% 15% 555 . Part I of Schedule C  The Maharashtra legis- lation has to be viewed in the context of the 46th Amendment to the Constitution . The proceeds of the tax on consignment of goods (whether the cons  The High Court held that there was no violation of Article 301 of the Constitution . The goods taxed do not leave the State in the shape of raw material, which change their form in the  Civil Appeal No. 1173-77 (NT)/85 (Gedore (I) Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Haryana & Anr.) and 5  It is one thing to levy a purchase tax where the character and class of goods in respect of which the tax is levied is described in a particular manner (vide, Andhra Sug