 The respondent employees were fined by the Appellant Board for misconduct, and various sums were recovered from them . They filed a Claims Application No. 5/72 under Section 33C (  An industrial dispute would arise between employers and their workmen or between workmen and workmen, it should be considered an area within the sphere of "industry" but not otherwise .  If the State's inalienable functions are excepted from the sweep of the definition contained in section 2(j), one shall have it is the nature of the activity is an industry  Industrial Tribunal Bombay & Ors. (1962) dissented from. The Court said the Legislature could not have intended to bring in a liberal profession like that of an Attorney within the  All organized activity possessing the triple elements in I (supra), although not trade or business, may still be 'industry' provided the nature of the activity bears resemblance to what we  It could not be the intention of the legislature that categories 2 and 3 of the charities alluded to in the leading judgment, hospitals run on charitable basis or as a part of the functions of  CIVIL APPEAL No. 2151 OF 1970 (Appeal by Special Leave from the Order dated 28-2-1970 'of the Additional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi in I  The Constitution and the directive principles of State policy, read with the basic fundamental rights, provide us with a compass . We have, so to speak, to chart what may appear to be  The Constitution must necessarily be found in express provisions of the construction and not merely in subjective notions about meanings of words . For objectivity, we have to look first to the words used in  An interpretation should be given to the words used to take in new facts and situations, if the words are capable of comprehending them, the Court said . In the Workmen of Dim  The object of the Act was to make provision for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes . The Court said: "Industry" means any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling  It seems to me that the term 'analogous to trade or business' could reasonably mean only activity which results in goods made or manufactured or services rendered which are capable of being converted  The Court said there : "Under the Constitution, the State is itself envisaged as having the right to carry on trade or business as mentioned in Art. 19(1) (g  Legalese and logomachy have the genius to inject mystique into common words, alienating the laity from the rule of law . Natural meaning is nervous of acceptance in court  The great American judge, Justice Cardozo, while he was Chief Justice of New York Supreme Court., made this point: "The Courts are not helped as they could and ought to be  The canons of construction are trite that we must read the statute as a whole to get a hang of it . We must have regard to the historical background, objects and reasons,  The definition of industry has to be decoded in this background and our holding is reinforced-by the fact that industrial peace, collective bargaining, strikes and lock-outs, industrial adjudications  A Judge must not alter the material of which the Act is woven, but he can and should iron out the creases." The duty of the court is to interpret the words that the  Banerji dismissed two employees whose dispute was dismissed . The present- even the revolutionary present-does not break wholly with the past but breaks bread with it, without being swallowed by it  The award of the Industrial Tribunal directed reinstatement but the Municipality challenged the award before the High Court and this Court on the fundamental ground that a municipality in discharging its normal duties connected  The Court referred to 'public utility service' Sec. 2(n) and argued "A public utility service such as railways, telephones and the supply of power, light or water  'Trade' is not only in the etymological or dictionary sense, but in the legal usage, a term of the widest scope . It is used in the widest application to  The case contributes to industrial jurisprudence, with special reference to the Act, and knocks down a few negative fixations . Undertakings, sans profit motive, may well be  'Industrial warfare', is no mere figure of speech. It is recognized by the law as the correct description of internal conflicts in industrial matters . Strikes and lock- outs are, by  A chronological survey of post-Banerji. decisions of this Court, with, accent on the juristic contributions registered by them, may be methodical . Thereafter, cases in  'The wings of the 'industry' have been spread wide in section 2(j) and brought out in the decision in Corporation case 'was concerned with a dispute between a dispute  Industrial Disputes Act was passed to 'employer, ' employee', also support . The long title of the make provision for the promotion of industries and peaceful and amicable settlement of disputes  Isaacs J., in dissenting judgment in School Teachers' Association of Australia v. State of Victoria v. Victoria . Issacs J. argued that it was fallacious to spin out '  Industrial disputes are not simply a claim to share the wealth jointly produced and-capable of registration in statistics . At heart they are a struggle, constantly becoming more intense on the part of  In Gandhi's India basic education and handicraft merge and in the latter half of our century higher education involves field studies, factory training, house surgeoncy and clini- cal education .  If an activity falls under either part of the 249 definition, it will be an industry within the meaning of the Act . If a service rendered by an individual or private person would be an  The same Bench decided both Corporation of Nagpur and Hospital Mazdoor Sabha . It repels the profit motive and quid pro quo theory as having any hearing on the question .  The 'rub' with the ruling, if we may with great deference say so, begins when the Court inhibits itself from effectuating the logical thrust of its own crucial ratio :have  Co-operation between capital and labour or between the employer and his employees is the co-operation which is directly involved in the production of goods or in the rendering of service . Hiday  There is no need for insistence upon the .principle of partnership, the doctrine of direct nexus or the contribution of values by employees . Efficient collectivity is the essence of professional  Law, medicine, and clergy-held (or continued to hold) estate- Eke positions .  The paradigms of professionalism are gone, writes Andrew Keen . Keen: 'Professional expertise and excellence with its occupational autonomy, ideology, learning, bearing and morality, holds aloft a  A solicitor's firm or a lawyer's firm becomes successful not merely by the talent of a single lawyer but by the co-operative operations of several specialists, juniors and seniors . The  The Court in the University of Delhi, J. Gajendragadkar J., observed :"It would, no doubt, sound somewhat strange that education should be described as industry  The Court was confronted by the Corporation of Nagpur where it had been expressly held that the education department of the Corporation was service rendered by the department and so the subordinate menial employees of  The error has crept in mixing up the numerical strength of the personnel with the nature of the activity . The Corporation of Nagpur has effectively ruled, these operations, viewed in severally or  The grammar of labour law in a pluralist society tells us that the worker is concerned with wages and conditions of service, the employer with output and economies and the community with peace, production  The Gandhi 268 Ashram, which employs workers like spinners and weavers and supplies cloth or other handicraft at concessional rates to needy rural consumers, may not qualify for exemption .  Bombay Pinjrapole (1) considered the earlier case- law, including the decisions of the High Courts bearing on humane activities for the benefit of sick animals . We must look at  An earlier decision of this Court, The Ahmedabad Textile Industries Research Association(1)case has taken the view that even research institutes are roped in by the definition . But  The true test is based on the pathology of industrial friction and explosion impeding community production and consumption . The only ground to extricate clubs from the coils of industrial law is absence of  We have adverted to a possible category of clubs and associations which may swim out of the industrial pool- we mean self serving clubs, societies or groups or associations . Clubs speaking generally are  Madras Gymkhana Club, a blue-blooded, members' club has the socialite cream of the city on its rolls . For fulfilment of these objects the club employs officers  The Cricket Club of India(1) stands in a worse position . The Gymkhana case, we respectfully hold, is wrongly decided . The testimony of the activities can leave none in  Hidayatullah C. J., considered the facts of the appeals clubbed together there and held that all the three institutions in the bunch of appeals were not industries .  It is transcendental to define material services as excluding professional services . Gymkhana and Cricket Club of India are correctly decided . The Court has stated that the enterprises must be analogous to trade  The law shed steady light on industrial inter-relations and the country's tribunals and courts settled down to evolve a progressive labour jurisprudence, burying the bad memories of la  'Industry', as defined in Sec, 2 (j) and explained hi Banerji, has a wide import. We speak, not exhaustively but to the extent covered by  The dominant nature of services and the integrated nature of the departments as explained in Corporation of Nagpur, will be true test . The whole, undertaking will be 'industry' although those  A group of five hospitals called the J.Hospital, Bombay, which is run and managed by the State Government in order to provide medical relief and to promote the health of the people  The Court rejected the test of 'association of words' while deciding whether the Government-run hospital is an industry but accepted that very test while indicating which categories of activities would fall outside  The nature of an activity is the determining factor and that does not change according to who undertakes it . The argument that he who does charity is not doing trade or business misses the point  The twin consideration of profit motive and capital investment is irrelevant for determining whether an activity is an industry . Activities which are dominated by charitable motives are not beyond the pale of the definition in section  The argument that the activity of the clubs cannot be described as trade or business or manufacture overlooks, with respect, that the true test can only be whether the activity is organised or arranged  The Hospital Mazdoor Sabha & Ors. v. Kuldip Singh Sethi (2) was heard on the bench in State of Bombay & . Ors v. The Hospital