 SC 332; 1951 SCR 747 (23 May 1951) SC [549 (2) RF 1971] SC [454 (6) RF 1973] SC1461 (227,450  Section 7 of the [Delhi Laws Act, 1912], and s. 2 of the Ajmer-Merwara (Extension of Laws) Act, 1947, are wholly intra  Section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950, is ultra vires in so far as it empowers the Central Government to extend to a Part C State laws  No constitutional limitation on delegation of legislative power to a subordinate unit is to be found in the Indian Councils Act, 1861, Or the Government of India Act, 1935, or the Constitution  The principle of non-delegation of legisla- tive powers has no application to the British Parliament . The courts should not interfere with the discretion that undoubtedly rests with the legislature  Parliament with the object inter alia of making a uniform provision for extension of laws with regard to all Part C States except Coorg and the Andaman and Nico-bar Islands enacted the  Arguments were heard on the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 16th, 17th and 17th days of April, 1951 . The following judgments were delivered  Under the English Constitution the British Parliament with its legis- lative authority in the King and the two Houses of Parlia- ment is supreme and its sovereignty cannot be challenged anywhere .  It is improper to use the word "constitutional" in respect of laws passed by such a sovereign body . No court or authority has any right to pronounce that any Act of Parliament is unconstitutional  The Indian Legislature in 1861 and upto 1915 was a subordinate legislature and not a sovereign legisla- ture . The courts in India may, when the occasion arises, pronounce upon the  Under the Government of India Act, the legis- lative powers were distributed between the Central legisla- ture and the Provincial legislature, each being given exclu- s  The President is given express power to suspend the Constitution and assume all legislative powers in emergency situations . He says there is no authority or tribunal which can question the right or power of the authority  When a legislative body passes an Act it has exercised its legislative function . It has nothing to do with the principle of division of powers found in the Constitution of the United States of America .  Lord Selbourne argued that Act XXII of 1869 was within the legislative 770 power of the Governor-General in Council . He said it was not legislation but was a delegation of legislative  The Privy Council ruled that the Indian Legislature was supreme and its powers were as plenary and of the same nature as the British Parliament . The Indian Parliament had not created a legislative body  The Queen v. The Privy Council upheld its validity on the ground that it was conditional legislation . The Board after affirming that what was done was no delegation at all held that the  A close scrutiny of these decisions and the observations contained therein, in my opinion, clearly discloses that instead of supporting the proposition urged by the Attorney-General impliedly that contention is neg  The local legislature is supreme and has the same authority as the Imperial Parliament, or the Parliament of the Domin- ion, would have had under like circumstances to confide to a municipal institution  He held that the decision of the Privy Council in the Fort Frances' case(2) had decided the validity of the War Measures Act and no further question remained in that respect .  Mr Justice Dixon considered the argu- ment fully in these terms: "The validity of this provision is now attacked upon the ground that it is an attempt to grant to the executive a  The true nature and quality of the legislative power of the Commonwealth Parlia- ment involves as a part of its content power to confer law- making powers upon authorities other than Parliament itself .  The U.S. Supreme Court of the United States of America said it was not permissible for one body to delegate this authority and functions to another body . In Crawford on Statutory Construction  There are many things upon which useful legislation must depend, which cannot be known to the law-making power, and must therefore be a subject of enquiry and determination outside the halls of  A dispute about its validity being raised in a court of law for some years cannot be considered binding, when a question about the validity of such practice is raised and comes for decision before the  The true test of effacement is that the authority which confers power on the subordinate body should not be able to withdraw the power . Abdication, according to the Oxford Dictionary, means  The word "delegation" has been somewhat loosely used in the course of discus- sion and even by some Judges in expressing their views . Under the new Constitution of 1950  Article 357 (1) (a) gives power to the Parliament to authorise the President to delegate his legis- lative powers . Article 22 (4) (b) (  Section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act enables the Government (executive) to extend by notification with such restrictions and modifica- tions as it thinks fit, to the Province of  Section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act contains an entirely different quality of power from the power conferred by sections 8 and 9 of Act XXII of 1869 . Privy Council decisions emphasize two  The power to extend, mutatis mutandis, the laws as contained in sections 8 and 9 of Act XXII of 1869 brings in the idea of adaptation by modification, but  All the three sections mentioned in the three questions are ultra vires the Legislatures, functioning at the relevant dates, to the extent power is given to the Government (executive) to  Provincial Legislatures are in no sense delegates of or acting under any mandate from the Imperial Parliament . Some writers have suggested that some writers that the legislature is a delegate of the people or the  The doctrine found many enthusiasts in America and was virtually elevated to a legal principle in that country . Massachusetts in her Constitution, adopted in 1780, provided that "in the govern- ment  National Industrial Recovery Act, in so far as it purported to confer upon the President the author- ity to adopt and make effective codes of fair competition and impose the same upon members of  "The Constitution has never been regarded as denying to the Congress the necessary resources of flexibility and practicality which will enable it to perform its functions in laying down policies and establishing standards, while  Locke and Blackstone strongly advocated separation of powers in the 17th and 18th centuries . Montesquieu thought that it represented the "sepa- ration of powers" doctrine .  American jurists have gone too far in holding that the rule against delegation was a direct corollary from the separa- tion of powers . I think that the correct legal position has  The rule against abdication does not prohibit the Legisla- ture from employing any subordinate agency of its own choice for doing such subsidiary acts as may be necessary to make its legislation  The leading case on the subject is Queen v. Burah(1), which has been cited by this court on more than one' occasion and has been accepted as good authority . The  The power so to legislate cannot be denied to the Parliament of Canada when he subject of legislation is within its competency . The same doctrine was laid down in the case of lodge v  The Privy Council never liked to commit themselves to the statement that delegated legislation was permissible . They were at pains to show that the provisions impugned before them were not instances of delegation  It seems to me that in strict point of law the dictum of Evatt J. is not a precise or an accurate state- ment . The legislature in order to function effectively,  The doctrine of separation of powers and the judi- cial interpretation it has received in America ever since the American Constitution was framed, enables the American courts to check undue and excessive delegation  The Ajmer-Merwara (Extension of Laws) Act, 1947, empowered the Dominion Legislature to make laws with respect to subjects mentioned in three Legis- lative Lists  The Cabinet system, which is the most notable characteristic of the British Constitution, is also one of the features of our Constitution and the doctrine of separation of powers, cannot dominate the interpretation of  The Government has been given complete discretion to adopt any law whatsoever passed in any part of the country, whether by the Central or Provincial Legis- lature . The provisions are not confined  Queen v. Burah(1) is so familiar that they need not be reproduced . Section 8 of Act XXII of 1869 says Lieutenant-Governor may extend to the said  It is a cardinal principle of our system of government that local affairs shall be managed by local authorities, and general affairs by the central authority . The creation of municipalities exercising local self-government  There are many enactments in India, which are not without their parallel in England, in which it is stated that the provisions of the Act concerned shall apply to certain areas in the first  The power of introducing necessary re- strictions and modifications is incidental to the power to apply or adapt the law . The power to modify certainly involves a discretion to make suitable changes, but  In 1929, a Bill was proposed to carry out the policy of having fewer and bigger local authority in Scotland . In 1925, the Parliament passed the Rating and Valua- tion Act,  Section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950, gives power to the Central Government to make a provision in the enactment extended under the Act for the repeal or amendment  The advantage of such a course is that it enables the delegate authority to consult interests likely to be affected by a particular law, and utilize the results of its investigations and experiments in the best  The validity of section 7 of the [Delhi Laws Act, 1912], and section 2 of the Ajmer Merwara (Extension of Laws) Act, 1947, and of  A majority held by a majority held that the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Bihar Maintenance of Public Order Act, 1937, was beyond the competence of  A delegation of legislative functions by them, however extensive, so long as they preserve their own capacity, cannot be challenged as unconstitutional . Such legislatures are in no sense delegates of the Imperial Parliament  Two cases have put an end to a doctrine which appears at one time to have had some currency, that a Colo- nial Legislature is a delegate of the Imperial Legislature . Lord H  The case involved such an extensive delegation of legislative power that it squarely raised the question of the constitutional validity of surrender or abdication of such power . Lord Haldane's dictum  Court would seem to place the dividing line between laying down a policy or establishing a standard in respect of the subject legislated upon on the one hand and implementing that policy and en- forcing  The learned Judge rejected the argument based on previous legislative practice as the instances relied on were not "clear and undisputed instances of a transfer of legislative authority" Garth C.J.  English doctrine of supremacy within limits was laid down specifically in regard to the Indian Legislature . The Indian Legislature was intended to have plenary powers of legislation as large and of the same nature as  In the absence of a constitutional inhibition, delegation of legislative power, however, could be made so long as the delegating body retains its own legislative power . In the second case, a  The Governor in Council has no independent status as a law- making body . The legislative activity of Parliament is still resent at the time when the orders are made, and these orders are"  The Federal Court of India ruled that sections 5, 10 and 16 of the Special Criminal Courts Ordinance were ultra vires and invalid . The Privy Council v. Benoari Lal  The Privy Council rejected the reasoning and conclusion of the major- ity of the 'Court in a clear and emphatic pronouncement . They said: "With the greatest respect to  Section 7 fell within the general scope of the affirmative words of section 22 of the Indian Councils Act, 1861, which conferred the law-making power on the Governor General in Council .  Section 2 of the Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950, is framed on the same lines as the other two impugned provisions save for the addition of a clause em  The main restrictions and limitations on the legislative power of Parliament or of the States are those contained in Part III of the Constitution relating to Fundamental Rights .  Merely be- cause in a particular instance of rare and extraordinary occurrence an express provision authorising the President to delegate to another the law-making powers conferred on him by Parliament is  It was suggested that the true nature and scope of the legislative power of Parliament involves as part of its content power to confer law-making powers upon authorities other than Parliament itself . This is  The doctrine of ultra vires has no roots whatever in a country where the doctrine of supremacy of Parliament holds the field . The sovereignty of Parliament is an idea fundamental- ly inconsistent with the  Canadian courts are by no means uniform on the power of the Canadian Parliament to delegate legislative power . Those cited to us of recent date seem to have been given under the pressure of the two  Queen v. Burgh(1) was an appeal from the High Court of Bengal, a reference was made to it and the decision was mentioned as laying down an apposite rule for  An Act hereafter passed by the Council of the Governor General for making Laws and Regula- tions shall be deemed to extend to any part of the said territory, unless the same be  The Indian Legislature seems to be regarded as, in effect, an agent or delegate, acting under a mandate from the Imperial Parliament, which must in all cases be executed directly by itself .  Their Lordships think that it is a fallacy to speak of the powers thus conferred upon the Lieutenant Governor as if, when they were exercised, the efficacy of the acts done under them would  The Privy Council was not prepared to lay down that delegation of legislative power was a content of the power itself . It contented itself by holding the law valid under the name and style  No doubt was cast on this construction of the language of section 39 either in the minority judgment of the High Court or in the judgment of their Lordships of the Privy Council . The  Provincial legislatures are in no sense delegates of or acting under any mandate from the Imperial Parliament . The case does not sanction the proposition that power to amend or to modify a statute passed by the  The Act was therefore held void . Lord Haldane who delivered the opinion of the Privy Council made the following observations:-- "Their Lordships do no more than draw attention to  Four recent Canadian cases cited for the extreme view that short of effacing itself Parliament or a legisla- ture has the widest power of delegation and that it acts intra vires the  "Abdication" according to the Oxford Dictionary means abandonment, either formal or virtual, of sovereignty or other high trust . Court held that except in one part the regulations were intra rites  The Supreme Court did not proceed beyond the rule laid down by their Lordships of the Privy Council in Queen v. Burah and Hodge v. The Queen .  American courts on the constitutionality of delegation of legislative power are, as in (1) 34 Vict. c. 28. (2) Commonwealth v Colonial Ammunition Co. (4)  Taft C.J. said it is a breach of the national fundamental law if Congress gives up its legislative power and transfers it to the President, or to the judicial branch . Ta  Courts have held that delegation of power to alter or modify a statute is unconstitutional . Delegation of general power to make and repeal laws has uniformly been held as unconstitutional .  The word "modify" has been defined as meaning "vary, extend or en- large, limit or restrict" A legislative Act passed by the supreme legislature cannot be amended by  Two cases came before the Supreme Court, one of which was decided in February, 1931, and the other in November, 1931\. The first of these is the case of Huddart  The question in that case was whether section 3 of the Transport Workers Act was intra rites the constitution inasmuch as it delegated power of making regu- lations notwithstanding anything else contained  Mr. Justice Evatt in this case stated the rule differ- ently. He observed "every grant by the Parliament of author- ity to make regulations is itself a grant of  The decision in Baxter v Ah Way(2) is based on a correct construction of the provisions of the Australian Constitution and the later decisions cannot be considered as any guide in this country for  The Bihar Maintenance of Public Order Act, 1947, in sub-section (3) of section 1 provided as follows :-- "It shall remain in force for a period of one year  Modification of statute amounts to re-enacting it partially . A modified statute is not the same original statute. It is a new Act and logically speak- ing, it amounts to  The doctrine against delegation of legislative power still holds the field . In Canada and India the rule laid down by their Lordships of the Privy Council in Burah's case has never been  No public functionary can himself perform all the duties he is privileged to perform unaided by agents and delegates, but from this circumstance it does not follow that he can delegate the exercise  It seems to me that the nature of the duty is such that it is implicit within it that it should be discharged by the person en- trusted with it and by no others . The  An elaborate provision has been made in the Constitution for employing agencies and machinery for the exercise of the executive power of the Union . The Parliament is authorized by law to confer functions on authorities other  The President has been given the power to make regulations for the peace and good government of territories enumerated in Part D of the First Schedule . In exercise of that power he can repeal or  In the absence of express powers of delegation allowed by the Constitution, the Par- liament has no power to delegate its essential legislative functions to others, whether State legislatures or executive authorities  The Ajmer-Merwara Act, 1947, has to be answered on the provi- sions of the constitution contained in the Constitution Act of 1935 . Mr. Macaul  Section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act has not been drafted in the same terms as section 5(a) of the Scheduled Districts Act . The Governor-General discharged the executive and  A seemingly similar instance to the enactment contained in section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act is in section 8 of Act XXII of 1869, considered by the Privy Council in Burah  The first question relates to section 7 of the [Delhi Laws Act, 1912], and concerns its validity in whole or in part . The section gives a carte blanche to the  Section 7 of the Delhi Laws Act declares that the legislature has no policy of its own and that the Governor-General in Council can declare it and can determine what laws would be in force  The President of India invit- ing this Court to consider and report to him its opinion on the three following questions :-- (1) Was section 7 of the [Delhi Laws  Part C States (Laws) Act, 1950, has been enacted by the Indian Parliament after the new Constitution came into force . Controversy centres round the point as to whether such  Anti-delegation rule says powers entrusted to one department should be exercised exclusively by that department without encroaching upon the powers confided to others . The other doctrine that is invoked in  The rule of non-delegation has so many exceptions engrafted upon it that a well known writer has tersely expressed that it is difficult to decide whether the dogma or the  Act XXII of 1869 was passed by the Governor-General's Legislative Council . The majority of the Judges of the Calcutta High Court upheld the contention of the respondent, Bur  The validity or invalidity of a delegation of legisla- tive power by the British Parliament is not and cannot be a constitutional question at all in the United Kingdom in the UK .  The Delhi Laws Act of 1912 and the Ajmer Merwara Act of 1947 were enacted . The power of making laws and regulations was vested in a distinct body of the Governor-General  The soundness of the doctrine rests upon the essential principles involved in our written Constitution . The primary or essential duty of law- making has got to be discharged by the legisla- t  The Indian Parliament was in no sense a delegate of the Imperial Parliament . The Privy Council was fully alive to the implications of a written constitution entrusting the exercise of legislative powers to  Question of delegated legislation has come up for consideration before courts of law in two distinct classes of cases . One class comprises what is known as cases of conditional legislation . The other class comprises cases  Judi-cial Committee held that the Act does not delegate any legislative powers whatsoever . The same principle was applied by the Judicial Commit- tee in King v Benoari Lal S  It is not enough that the legislature retains control over the subor- dinate agent and could recall him at any time it likes, to justify its arming the delegate with all the legislative  Two cases up till now in which the statutes of Congress have been de- clared invalid because of delegation of essential legis- lative powers . Delegation of powers must be  Many Canadian cases, it may be noted, went up on appeal to the Judicial Committee . American Judges particularly in later years can be supported on sound democratic principles .  Dominion War Measures Act, 1914, passed by the Dominion Parliament of Canada, empowered the Governor- General to make "such regulations as he may" The question arose whether such transfer of power  In re Gray(1) sought to be distinguished in a subsequent Canadian case on the ground that in case of emergency it was possible to pass legislation of this sort by taking recourse to the