 The High Court set aside the award setting aside of the wrong proposition of law laid down in award as basis of award . The award was set aside on the ground that the error committed by  It was held that in drawing distinction between `rates' and `discount' and upholding the right of the Board to tamper with the former and negating similar right in respect of  The High Court of Allahabad has set aside the award of the Umpire . Agra Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. Shobha Dikshit v. University of Delhi  Agra Electric Supply Co. Ltd. increased per unit rate of electricity from 0.20 P to 21.5 P in terms of clause 9 of the agreement . All bills received subsequent  The Hotel Hotel was to be charged at the rate of twenty paise per unit per month . The bills continued on these contractual rates till October 1974, even after the Supply Company was acquired  The Board increased the rate of electricity supplied to 30 paise per unit and refused to grant the discount to which the petitioner was entitled under the agreement as well as the cash discount of three  An application was made under section 12 of the Arbitration Act before the learned District Judge, Lucknow, for filing of the award and making the same Rule of the Court . Objections  Lucknow Bench of the Allahahad High Court held against the finding of the Lucknow . that the reference made to arbitration was unilateral . Mr Justice Loomba was of the view  An arbitrator's award may be set aside for error of law appearing on the face of it, though that jurisdiction is not lightly to be exercised . The award is not open to challenge  The trial court set aside the award, the High Court, in appeal, reversed this decision . In appeal to this Court it was contended for the appellant that the award was bad by reason  The Arbitration Act, 1970, was the result of a dispute over a certain coal refining process owned by the respondents . The applicants were to act as consulting Engineers in connection with a certain  PG NO 688 said it was a possible view in the light of the decision of this Court in Indian Aluminium Co.'s case (supra) The award is not amenable  The High Court and the learned IInd Additional District Judge were in error in the view they took of the award of the Umpire . The appeal must, therefore, be allowed and the