 The question of law involved in these matters has been the subject of conflicting decisions of this Court and hence is referred to the Constitution Bench for resolving the conflict . P.B. SAW  Section 24 enumerates eight matters which are to be ignored while determining the compensation of the land . Section 25 lays down that the amount of compensation awarded by the Court shall not be less than  The legislature had originally provided for a further sum in every case to be paid in addition to the market value of the land in consideration of the compulsory nature of the acquisition . This additional sum  It is here that the role of Section 30 of the amending Act (hereinafter referred to as 'Section 30') which makes provisions for the transitional period between the introduction of the  Clause (a) of Section 30(1) empowers the Collector to reopen such awards whether the proceedings are pending before him or not . The only restriction that the legislature has placed on  Section 23 of the principal Act nowhere makes any distinction between the acquisition proceedings commenced prior to and after 30-4-1982 or inhibits the power of the reference Court, unlike the provisions of  Section 30 extends the benefit of the amended Section 23(2) and Section 28 of the principal Act also to and in relation to not only the award made by the Collector but also to  The vast majority of the landholders in this country, thus, are subsistence farmers . It is also a notorious fact that agriculture 'In this country has never been a profitable occupation' The  The Honorable Minister who piloted the Bill expressed his inability to do so due to various difficulties . Instead, he opted for measures including- that provided under Section 23(1 A)  Section 30(1) and 30(2) deal with different benefits and speak of different powers of different tribunals . Section 23(1-A) is no less responsible for  Section 23(1-A) read with Section 30(1)(a) of the Amendment Act of 1984 . I am unable to agree with the following observation underlined by me in  The word 'award' is not defined in the Act, as pointed out at the outset, the legislature has used the said word in various provisions of the Act with a specific intention  The only limitation that was placed on the power of the Collector in this behalf was that he should not reopen the awards already made by him in proceedings which were pending before him on 30-  Sub-section (1) of Section 30 of the amending Act relates only to the powers of the Collector . It is erroneous to read its provisions and the limitations placed by and the  The High Court rejected the claim for additional amount at the rate of 12% per annum payable under Section 23(1-A) on the view that the said provision was not attracted  The rate of interest prescribed in Sections 28 and 34 was enhanced from 6% to 9% . Section 30 of the amending Act contains the following transitional provisions . Section 23 solatium  A two- Judge Bench of this Court rejected the contention that the amendment in the provisions of Section 23(2) regarding enhanced solatium at the rate of 30% was applicable to  The High Court would have to apply the provisions in the amended Section 23 sub-section (2) and Section 28 . The appeal against the award would be a continuation of the proceeding initiated  Section 23(1-A) of principal Act and Section 30(1) of the amending Act have been construed by the various High Courts in the light of the decision in Bh  Section 23(1 A) enjoins a duty on the Court to award the additional amount at twelve per cent on the market value of the land for the period prescribed thereunder .  The Court has held that Section 23(1-A) confers a substantive right to claim the additional amount calculated as set out in the said sub-section in the circumstances set out  It has been submitted that this construction does not involve giving retrospective effect to the provisions of sub-section (1-A) of Section 23 of the amending Act . A provision cannot  Zora Singh7 proceeds on the basis that Section 23(1-A) deals with substantive rights and it confers a substantive right to claim additional amount calculated as set out in the  A statute which is in its direct operation prospective cannot properly be called a retrospective statute because a part of the requisite for its action is drawn from time antecedent to its passing .  The law must speak in language which expressly or by clear intendment, takes in even pending matters . The provisions of Section 23(1-A) have to be construed in the light  The words "in every case" are also found in Section 23(1-A) and so is the word 'also' contained in Section 30(1) of the amending  Section 23(1-A) of Section 30 of the amending Act has no application to proceedings which had commenced prior to 30-4-1982 . Section 30(1) deals  The limited scope of the retrospectivity that has been conferred in respect of Section 23(1-A) under sub-section (1) of Section 30 does not lend support to the  In support of the construction placed on Section 23(1-A) of the principal Act in Zora Singh7 the learned counsel for the claimants have referred to the Statement of Objects and  The choice of 30-41982, the date on which the original Bill was introduced in Parliament, cannot be said to be arbitrary and confining the ambit of retrospectivity so as  Section 23(1-A) of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984 (for short 'the Amendment Act') is a substantive provision added in Land Acquisition Act, 18  An acre of land in one State due to irrigation facility and development activity may cost more than in any other State . The high ratio of compensation for land in that State should not be a  Law Commission observed four instances in which the carrying out of projects has been delayed because they could not obtain 647 possession of the land in time . Report submitted in 1970 suggested a time-  Section 23(1-A) provides for automatic lapse of acquisition proceedings under Section II A if the award is not made by the Collector within two years of the publication of notification under Section  In Bishun Narain Misra v. State of Up.5 a rule made by the State Government providing that the age of retirement would be 55 years came up for consideration before  Section 23(1-A) does not create any right on past transactions . It operates in future, that is, confers benefit of additional compensation from the date it came into force  In Master Ladies Tailors Organisation v. Minister of Labour & National Service17, a question arose if an order passed by the Minister fixing remuneration for work and holding was ultra v  A provision laying down the date or the period on which the valuation of land shall be determined cannot be taken as the date from which the amendment in the Act providing for additional compensation could be  Section 30 is a transitional provision to bridge the gap between commencement of the Act and its operation prior to it . Clause (a) takes back applicability of Section 23(1-A  In absence of Section 30 it would have been difficult for a landowner whose land had been acquired under a notification issued under Section 4(1) before coming into force of the Act .  Sub-section (2) of Section 30 makes it operative from 30-4-1982 in relation to any award made by the Collector or Court or to any order passed by the High  The benefit of enhanced solatium is available only in those cases where the matter was pending for determination of compensation at the stage of reference under Section 18 in respect of acquisitions which had started  Section 23(1-A) came up for consideration earlier in point of time and by 1989 there were at least four decisions one of them being Constitution Bench Union of India v.R  Court held that a landowner was entitled to additional amount provided under Section 23(1-A) only if the acquisition proceedings were pending on 30-4- 1982 or they had been  Every landowner is entitled to additional compensation where the land acquiring proceedings started after 30-4-1982 whether the award by the Collector was made before 24-9-1984 or not .