 The question that falls for consideration in these matters is whether the 'medical representatives' as they are commonly known, are workmen according to the definition of 'workman' under Section 2  A three-Judge Bench of this Court in May & Baker (India) Ltd. v, Workmen' had to deal directly with the question as to whether the medical representative of the  It would be unreasonable to say that those who made the matches were 'producing' and those who 'sold' them were not . The Court further held that the difference in the rules and  Court held that a person must be held to be employed to do that work which is the main work he is required to do, even though he may be doing several types of work .  Ved Prakash Gupta v Delton Cable India (P) Ltd. was decided by the same three-Judge Bench which decided the S.K. Verma case . Ved P  The Court held that the substantial duty of the employee was that of a security inspector at the gate of the factory and it was neither managerial nor supervisory in nature in the sense in which  A still later decision in T.P Srivastava v. National Tobacco Co. of India Ltd.9 by referring to the decision in Burmah Shell case3 has also  This Court confirmed the finding of the Tribunal that the employees concerned were workmen because 75 per cent of their time was devoted to the writing work . In Burmah Shell case3 the  The 'SPE Act' came into force w.e.f. 6-3-1976 and applied forthwith to every establishment engaged in pharmaceutical industry by virtue of its Section 1  The Committee of Petitions (Rajya Sabha) in its 13th Report submitted on 14-3-1972 had come to the conclusion that the ends of social justice would be met  The legislature cannot be mandated to prescribe and secure particular service conditions to the employees or to a particular set of employees . Service conditions and the extent of their protection as well as the set of  The definition of 'workman' under ID Act will obviously not cover the sales promotion employee within the meaning of SPE Act . The 'unskilled' and 'skilled' were divorced  The Court held that the State Government or the specific authority mentioned in Section 17 had not been conferred with the normal powers of a court or a tribunal to hold a formal inquiry . The Court