 The Indian Constitution is both a legal and social document . It provides a machinery for the governance of the country . It also contains the ideals expected by the nation . To what extent we have  On 82 occasions the President's Rule in States have been imposed by invoking or resorting to Article 356(1) of the Constitution . On 13 occasions the Proclamations have been  Dr. Ambedkar's hope that in rarest of rare cases only there will be an occasion to invoke the emergency provisions was soon belied as the provisions of Article 356 of the  The oldest federal model in the modem world can be said to be the Constitution of the United States of America . Under that Constitution there is a single legislative list enumerating the powers of the  Some of the subjects of common interest were, however, transferred to the Union List, thereby enlarging the powers of the Union to enable speedy and planned economic development of the nation . The  Article 368 confers powers on Parliament to amend the Constitution, albeit by a specified majority . The power extends to amending matters pertaining to the executive as well as legislative powers of the States  The Indian Constitution has, in it, not only features of a pragmatic federalism which, while distributing legislative powers and indicating the spheres of governmental powers of State and Central Governments, is overl  Constitution of India, Article 5, does not recognise the concept of dual citizenship . Article 9 makes it clear that if any person voluntarily acquires the citizenship of any foreign country, he will  In 1945 Pandit Nehru wrote that the future government of free India must be secular in the sense that government will not associate itself directly with any religious faith but will give freedom to all  The term 'Secular' has advisedly not been defined presumably because it is a very elastic term not capable of a precise definition and perhaps best left undefined . By the 42nd Amendment  Dr Ambedkar carefully weaved Gandhiji's concept of secularism and democracy into the constitutional fabric . Constitution allows different political parties ruling at the Centre and in one or more States  The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered to the President shall not be inquired into in any Court . Article 74(1) ordains that the President must  The power conferred by Article 356 is of an extraordinary nature to be exercised in grave emergencies . The exercise of such power cannot be equated to the power exercised in administrative law field . The  There is no dispute that the Proclamation issued under Article 356 is subject to judicial review . The debate is confined essentially to the scope of judicial review or the area of justiciability in  The question is of the test to determine the situation in which the power of judicial review is capable of exercise . The deeming provision in Article 365 is an indication that cases falling within its  The Court of Appeal has emphasised that in the case of subordinate legislation such as an Order in Council approved in draft by both Houses, "the courts would without doubt be competent to consider  There is rightly no challenge to the Proclamation relating to Uttar Pradesh . Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka are not justiciable . Article 356 has a vital bearing on the  Article 356 refers to the effect of the Proclamation of emergency . Proclamation so approved shall, unless revoked, cease to operate on the expiration of a period of six months from the date  Dr Ambedkar: "Some people might think that Article 277-A is merely a pious declaration, that it ought not to be there. The Drafting Committee has taken a different  It is clear from Article 355 that it is not an independent source of power for interference with the functioning of the State Government but is in the nature of justification for the measures to be adopted  Proclamation issued under Article 356(1) is open to judicial review, the court said . The court's power extends to legal control of public authorities in exercise of their statutory power .  Lord Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service8 (AC at p. 408) has enunciated three heads of grounds upon which administrative  In Muhammad Sharif v. Federation of Pakistan 17 the question was whether the order of the President dissolving the National Assembly on May 29, 1988 was in accordance with the powers conferred on him  The Attorney General and other counsel supporting the Presidential Order was that it is the subjective satisfaction of the President and it is in his opinion to dissolve the National Assembly . The learned Chief Justice Salam  An order was issued appointing four inspectors to investigate the affairs of the appellant-Company on the ground that the Board was of the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that the business was being conducted  In M.A. Rasheed v. State of Kerala18 the facts were that the respondent- State issued a notification under Rule 114(2) of the Defence of India Rules,  The satisfaction of the President is a condition precedent to the exercise of power under Article 356, clause (1) If it can be shown that there is no satisfaction of President at all,  The power exercised by the President is on the advice of the Council of Ministers tendered under Article 74(1) of the Constitution . Dr Ambedkar had to say that Dr Am  Article 356 provides the remedy when there has been an actual breakdown of the constitutional machinery of the State . Shafiur Rahman, J. in Khaja Ahmad Tariq Rahim v  Failure of constitutional machinery may occur in a number of ways . Political crises, internal subversion, physical breakdown and noncompliance with constitutional directions of the Union Executive may or can be said to  The use of this power to sort out internal differences or intra-party problems of the ruling party would not be constitutionally correct . This power cannot be legitimately exercised on the sole ground of stringent  The object of Article 74(2) was not to exclude any material or document from the scrutiny of the courts . The courts are not interested in either the advice given by the Ministers to  The Court of Appeal has emphasised that in the case of subordinate legislation such as an Order in Council approved in draft by both Houses, 'the courts would without doubt be competent to consider  The Constitution is essentially a political document and provisions such as Article 356 have a potentiality to unsettle and subvert the entire constitutional scheme . Democracy and federalism are the essential features  The allocation of the residuary power of legislation to Parliament (i.e. the Federation) is irrelevant for determining the federal nature of a Constitution . External sovereignty is not relevant to the  In the United States, a defiance of Federal law can be, and, as we have seen, has been put down by the use of Armed Forces of the U.S. and  Presidential power under Article 356(1) has also to be viewed from yet another and equally important angle . The participation of the people in the governance is a sine qua non of  State Governments have been sacked and the Legislative Assemblies dissolved on irrelevant, objectionable and unsound grounds . So far the power under the provision has been used on more than 90 occasions and  Dr Ambedkar had to say in reply to the apprehensions expressed by the other Hon'ble Members of the Constituent Assembly, in this context which also bring out the concerns  It is possible for the President to use only some of the requisite powers vested in him under Article 356(1) to meet the situation in question . Dr Ambedkar had to say  There is a corresponding obligation on the President to resort to other measures before the step is taken under Article 356(1) This is all the more necessary considering the principles of federal and democratic  The Supreme Court of Pakistan held that the impugned order of dissolution of National Assembly and dismissal of the Federal Cabinet were without lawful authority and, therefore, of no legal effect . The  The question of relief to be granted in a particular case pertains to the discretionary jurisdiction of the court . The least relief that can be granted is an injunction restraining the holding of fresh elections  Janata Party and Lok Dal (B) merged into a new party called Janata Dal in September 1988 . Govt. S.R. Bommai led the Government under the  The High Court dismissed the petition holding, among other things, that the facts stated in the Governor's report could not be held to be irrelevant . The court also held that recourse to floor  The High Court was wrong in holding that the floor-test was neither compulsory nor obligatory or that it was not a prerequisite to sending the report to the President recommending action under Article 356(  The writ petitioner G.S. Massar belonged to a front known as Meghalaya United Parliamentary Party (MUPP) which had a majority in the Legislative Assembly . The  30 MLAs, viz., 26 plus 4 independent MLAs who had voted for the motion, continued to stay in the House and elected the Speaker from amongst themselves to conduct the business .  On August 6, 1988, the Governor sent a report to the President of India about the formation of a new party by the 13 MLAS . He also stated that the said MLAs  As a result of the demolition of the structure which was admittedly a mosque standing at the site for about 400 years, there were violent reactions in this country as well as in neighbouring countries .  The President Proclamation was pursuant to the report of the Governor sent to the Prime Minister that Government of Rajasthan had played "an obvious role" in the episode at Ayodhya  The Tribunal under [Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967], has declared the ban on RSS as illegal and accordingly the ban has since been revoked . The non- implementation  The allegations of mala fide, capricious and arbitrary exercise of power are denied . The main plank and the primary programme of BJP was the construction of a Ram Temple at the very  Government took certain steps like the acquisition of land adjoining the disputed structure, demolition of certain other structures, including temples standing on the acquired land, and digging and levelling of a part of  In the manifesto issued by the BJP in connection with the 1993 General Elections, there is not a word of regret about what happened on December 6, 1992 . Ram Janambhoomi  The CBI has filed a charge sheet against leaders of the BJP and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad with the purpose of projecting them as criminals . BJP is the only party which is categorical  The majority judgment of the two judges of the Madhya Pradesh High Court+ had quashed the Proclamation taking the view that it was not possible to accept that failure on the part of  The Constitution prohibits discrimination against any citizen on the ground of his religion and guarantees equal protection of law and equal opportunity of public employment . Article 29 guarantees every section of the citizens its distinct culture  A large Muslim minority consisting of a tenth of the population continued to be the citizens of independent India . Thereafter, the learned jurist has gone on to point out that our Constitution undoubtedly  It is clear that appealing to any religion or seeking votes in the name of any religion is prohibited by the two provisions of the Constitution . We are, therefore, of the view that the  The validity of the Proclamation issued by the President under Article 356(1) is judicially reviewable to the extent of examining whether it was issued on the basis of any material  The Proclamations dated December 15, 1992 and the actions taken by the President removing the Ministries and dissolving the Legislative Assemblies in the States of Madhya Pradesh,  A writ petition was filed on April 26, 1989, a special Bench of three Judges of the High Court of Karnataka dismissed the writ petition (reported in S.R. Bomm  The legal immunity under Article 74(2) must be distinguished from the actions done by the President in discharge of his administrative functions under Article 356 . The burden of proof is always on the  The question is the width of the presidents power under Article 356 . Article 355 imposes duty on the Union to protect States against external aggression and internal disturbance . Clause (2) of Article 356  By operation of clause (4) of Article 356 a Proclamation so approved under proviso to clause (3) shall, unless revoked, cease to operate on the expiration of a period  The makers of the Constitution were aware of the peculiar conditions under which, and the reasons for which, the States (originally Provinces) were formed and their boundaries were defined .  K.C. Wheare in his Federal Government, 1963 Edn. at page 12 to ascertain the federal character, the important point is, "whether the powers of the Government are  The law laid down by the Supreme Court is the law of the land under Article 14 1 . The High Court has judicial power over territorial jurisdiction over the area over which it exercises power .  The key actor in the Centre-State relations is the Governor, a bridge between the Union and the State . The office of the Governor is intended to ensure protection and sustenance of the  In Encyclopaedia Britannica secularism is defined as "branch of totalitarian ethics, it is for the physical, moral and social improvement of mankind which neither affirms nor denies  There can be no democracy if anti-secular forces are allowed to work dividing followers of different religious faith . The concept of the secular State is essential for successful working of the democratic form  Indian concept of secularism means "equal status to all religions" Constitution makers intended to secure secular and socialist goals envisaged in the preamble of the Constitution . No one religion should  Positive secularism separates religious faith personal to man and limited to material, temporal aspects of human life . True religion must develop into a dynamic force for integration without which the continued existence of human  Article 27 reinforces the secular character of Indian democracy enjoining the State from compelling any person or making him liable to pay any tax, the proceeds of which are specifically prohibited to be appropriated from  Constitution protects only the essential and integral practices of the religion . The right to free profession of religion does not carry with it the right to make inflammatory speeches, nor be a licence to spread  Political party was defined as an association of individuals whose primary parliamentary purposes are to promote or accomplish elections or appointments to public offices, positions or jobs . Positive secularism concerns with such aspects of  Section 123(3) prohibits use of religion or caste in politics and declares that the promotion or attempt to promote violence and hatred between different classes of citizens of India on grounds of religion and  Constitution-makers intended to set up a Secular Democratic Republic the binding spirit of which is summed up by the objectives set forth in the preamble to the Constitution . No democratic political  Shri Ram Jethmalani said the interpretation of Section 123 of R.P. Act would be confined to only cases in which individual candidate offends religion of rival candidate in the  The scope of judicial review of the Presidential Proclamation under Article 356 was tested for the first time by this Court in State of Rajasthan v. Union of India3.199\.  It is the province and duty of this Court, as ultimate interpreter of the Constitution, to say what the law is . The action of the President under Article 356 is a constitutional function and  Chandrachud, J., as he then was, held that: (SCR p. 61: SCC p. 644, para 131) "Probing at any  The Court must decide which aspect of the public interest predominates, in other words which public interest requires that the document whether should be produced for effectuating justice and meaningful judicial review performing its  The President has no implied authority under the Constitution to withhold the document . On the other hand it is his solemn constitutional duty to act in aid of the court to effectuate judicial review .  Under Article 361, the President shall not be answerable to any court for the exercise or the performance of his power and duty of his office or for any act purported to have been done  It is settled law that in interpreting the Constitution neither motives nor bad faith nor abuse of power be presumed unless in an individual case it is assailed and arises for consideration on that premise .  The resolution of conflicts among public values is coterminous with social decision-making . Non-originalists can be seen as giving the judicial task of balancing the conflicting public values for  The width of the power is very wide, the satisfaction of the President is subjective satisfaction . The satisfaction is not justiciable on any judicially manageable standards . The exercise of the  The phrase "cannot be carried on" in clause (1) of Article 356 does not mean that it is impossible to carry on the Government of the State . It only means that  If a direction issued under Article 257(3) was failed to be complied with by the State to protect the railways, it would be another instance envisaged under Article 365 . Failure to  The motivating factor for action under Article 356(1) should never be for political gain to the party in power at the Centre, rather it must be satisfied that the constitutional machinery has failed  Constitution cannot provide detailed rules for every eventuality . Conventions are found in all established Constitutions . They are meant to bring about constitutional development without formal change in the law .  K.C. Wheare in his book Modern Constitution (1967 Edn.) stated that: "The conventions not only give discretionary powers to the Government but also in executive governance and a  The contention is that till expiry of two months the Legislative Assembly should not be dissolved and on the approval received from both the Houses of Parliament the President should dissolve it . If the President  The Constitution was amended more than 77 times and Article 356 itself was amended 6 times . Apart from the Congress Party, three non-Congress political parties were in power at the Centre during these  It is not the function of a court in the interpretation of statutes, to vindicate the wisdom of the law . It is duty of the courts to interpret a statute as they find it  In Encyclopaedia of the American Judicial System it is stated that the standard for assessing constitutionality must be the words of the Constitution, not what the judges would prefer the Constitution to  It is not possible to limit the scope of action under Article 356 to specific situations . Failure of the constitutional machinery may occur in several ways due to diverse causes be it political, internal sub  SCR p. 523: "India is an oasis of democracy, a fact of contemporary history which demands of the courts the use of wise statesmanship in the exercise of their  President satisfied that Governments of the States of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and breached the basic features  The State strikes a balance to ensure an atmosphere of full faith and confidence among its people . Political parties, group of persons or individuals who would seek to influence electoral process with a view to  It is a cardinal principle of our Constitution that no one, howsoever lofty, can claim to be the sole judge of the power given under the Constitution . It is the constitutional duty to  A consistent constitutional convention has been established that on issuing the Proclamation the President on his assumption of the functions of the Government of the State directs the Governor to exercise all the executive functions of  Article 356 of the Constitution of India is a provision without a parallel . Constitution of no other country contains a similar provision . Under Article 356, the President is empowered to remove the State Government  The draft Articles 277-A and 278 were taken up for consideration on August 3, 1949 . It would be appropriate to read both Articles 355 and 356 as enacted by the Constituent  Dr Ambedkar: "No provision of any Constitution, for that matter, is immune from being abused" Article 356 was conceived as a mechanism to ensure that the Government of the State  The Founding Fathers wished to establish a strong Centre in India . Constitution has a bias towards Centre reflected in distribution of legislative heads between the Centre and States . Article 3 empowers Parliament to form  Several taxes are collected by the Centre and made over, either partly or fully, to the States . Several obligations too are placed upon the Centre including the duty to protect every State against external  Article 356 characterises it as provision providing for failure of constitutional machinery in States . Clause (1), however, does not use the words 'failure of constitutional machine' Clause (  The power conferred by Article 356 is a conditioned power; it is not an absolute power to be exercised in the discretion of the President . The exercise of the power is made subject to approval  The Governor of a State is appointed by the President under Article 155 . He is indeed a part of the Government of the State . He takes the oath, prescribed by Article 159, to  Subclause (a) speaks of the President assuming to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State . It does not mean or imply dismissal or removal of the  The provisions of the Constitution relating to the Legislative Assembly of the State may be suspended under sub-clause (c) during the period of Proclamation generally referred to as keeping the Legislative  The President's action which is really the action of the Union Council of Ministers is subject to approval of both Houses of Parliament . Clause (3) says that every Proclamation issued under Article  The dismissal of a Government under subclause (a) of clause (1) cannot also be equated to the physical death of a living being, there is no irrevocability  The theory of factum valet may also be available to save the acts, orders and things done by the President or under his authority during the said period . The power under Article 356  Sarkaria Commission which was appointed to look into and report on Centre-State relations considered the manner in which this power has been exercised over the years and made certain recommendations designed to prevent its  All alternative courses available to the Union for discharging its paramount responsibility under Article 355 should be exhausted to contain the situation . The Governor should exploreall possibilities for having a Government enjoying majority support  It is not for us to express any opinion whether this impression of the Sarkaria Commission is justified or not . We are inclined to say, having regard to the constitutional scheme obtaining under our  Article 25 of the Constitution guarantees to all its people freedom of religion . Article 28(1) decrees that no religious instruction shall be provided in any educational institution wholly maintained out of the  Shri M.C. Setalvad says the Indian Constitution does not use the word secularism' in any of its provisions, but its material provisions are inspired by the concept  The 42nd (Amendment) Act formalised the matter beyond any doubt, leaving no room for any controversy . The Constitution does not recognise, it does not permit, mixing religion and  Section 29-A provides for registration of associations and bodies as political parties with the Election Commission . Every party contesting elections and seeking to have a uniform symbol for all its candidates has to  The President is clothed with several powers and functions by the Constitution . The President cannot be called upon to answer for or justify the action taken by him in the name of the President .  Article 74(1) deals with the acts of the President done "in exercise of his functions" Article 77 speaks of the executive action of the Government of India which is taken in the  The limited provision contained in Article 74(2) cannot override the basic provisions in the Constitution relating to judicial review . The scope of clause (2) should not be extended beyond its legitimate  The court will not ask whether such material formed part of the advice tendered to the President or whether that material was placed before the President . Advice is what is based upon the said material  The President's action under Article 356 cannot be equated to administrative action of a government official . The court is ill fitted to judge the material on which the action is based to determine whether  The dismissal of the State Government or dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly is essentially a political question, the validity and correctness whereof cannot be adjudged with reference to any known judicial standards and  The controversy really pertains to the scope, reach and extent of the judicial review . It must be said at the very outset that there is not, and there cannot be, a uniform  The courts have to wrestle with the distinction between mandatory and directory requirements, where the law has been described 'as inextricable tangle of loose ends' The fluidity of the  The approach of the Board was one of 'hands-off' The Governor General was held to be the final judge of the question whether an emergency exists . The power conferred by Section 72  The Federation Parliament passed Emergency (Federal Constitution and Constitution of Sarawak) Act, 1966, in exercise of the power conferred by clause (5) of Article 150, the Federation Parliament  Six opinions were delivered by the seven-Judge Bench in 1977 . The subject- matter of challenge in the suits was a letter written by the then Home Minister to Chief Ministers of certain States  The court cannot sit in judgment over the satisfaction of the President for determining whether any other view of the situation is reasonably possible . The scope of judicial review of the action under Article 356 is  Article 58 of the Constitution of Pakistan, 1973 provides for dissolution of National Assembly . Clause (1) says that the President shall dissolve the National Assembly if so advised by the Prime Minister .  President has to form his 'opinion' that a situation of the kind envisaged in Article 58(2)(b) has arisen which necessitates the grave step of dissolving the  Shri Sorabjee relied upon in Mian Mohd. Nawaz Sharif v. President of Pakistan 29 PLD(1993)SC473 56 PLD [(1989) SC 166  Kehar Singh was convicted under Section 302 IPC in connection with the assassination of the then Prime Minister of India, Smt Indira Gandhi and sentenced to death . A subsequent writ petition  The House of Lords dismissed the appeal preferred by the Unions. Shri Parasaran relies upon opinion of Lord Roskill where certain prerogative powers are held not fit subject-mat  Barium Chemicals6 was concerned with an enquiry ordered into the affairs of the appellant-company by the Company Law Board under Section 237(b) of the [Companies Act,  The High Court of Australia in the Queen v. Toohey ex parte Northem Land Council . The application was to be made to the Northern Territory Land Council, Northern Territory, under  In 1979, Planning Act was enacted superseding an earlier Act . Planning regulations were made by the Administrator of the Northern Territory under the Planning Act specifying inter alia the Cox peninsula as part  The power to dismiss the Federal Government and the National Assembly is vested in the President and President alone . Pakistan Supreme Court rejected the approach adopted by the Privy Council in Bhagat Singh  It is necessary to affirm that the Proclamation under Article 356(1) is not immune from judicial review . The court has never interfered in those matters because they do not admit of judicial  Both Houses of Parliament approved the Proclamation under clause (3) of Article 356 . Clause (5), as introduced by the 38th Amendment, read as follows :. Notwithstanding anything in  The cloud cast by the clause on the power of judicial review has been lifted . We agree that the deletion of this clause is certainly significant in the sense that the express bar created in the  The executive power of every State shall be so exercised as to ensure compliance with the laws made by Parliament and any existing laws which apply in that State, and not in any other case .  The article merely sets out one instance in which the President may hold that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution . It cannot be read as  The validity of the Proclamation was challenged by Shri Bommai and certain other members of the Council of Ministers by way of a writ petition (W.P. 7899 of  The High Court is unable to agree with the High Court except on points (1) and (2) To begin with, we must say that question of 'personal bona fides'  The High Court, in our opinion, erred in holding that the floor test is not obligatory . We make it clear that what we have said above is confined to a situation where the  In March 1990, Hill Peoples' Union, to which the petitioner, Gonald Stone Massar, belonged and several other State political parties and certain independent MLAs joined together to form a  A contempt petition was filed by the said four MLAs in this Court against the Speaker . They complained that his action in preventing them from entering into the Assembly premises was in violation of the  On October 11, 199 1, the President of India issued a Proclamation under Article 356 of the Constitution declaring that he was satisfied on the basis of a report from the Governor of Me  In August 1988, a split occurred in the ruling party whose strength was 34 at that time, one member having died . 13 of the 34 MLAs informed the Speaker of the Assembly that  The Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid structure (disputed structure) was demolished by the kar sevaks who had gathered there in response to  Governor of Rajasthan recommended imposition of President's rule . Governor of Himachal Pradesh had instigated kar sevaks to participate in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992  President issued three Proclamations dismissing all the three Governments in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh and dissolving their Legislative Assemblies . The validity of  It was the duty of the Union Government to have disclosed to the Court the material/information upon which the requisite satisfaction was formed, more so because the Proclamations themselves do not  The main plank and primary programme of BJP was the construction of a Ram temple at the very site where the Babri Masjid stood . The party openly proclaimed that they will remove relocate  The White Paper establishes the complicity of the Bhartiya Janata Party as such in the demolition of the disputed structure and its aftermath . It was the culmination of a sustained campaign carried on  The Congress and other anti-BJP parties used it as a pretext for furthering the cause of unprincipled minorityism . BJP is the only party which is categorical in  The RSS was banned on December 10, 1992. The Chief Ministers of Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh were said to be the members of the RSS and adhering to its  Shri Parasaran is right in his submission that what happened on December 6, 1992 was no ordinary event, that it was the outcome of a sustained campaign carried out over a number of  The challenge to the Proclamation relating to these three States is, therefore, liable to fail . The power conferred by Article 356 upon the President is a conditioned power, not an absolute power  The court has the power to restore the dismissed Government to office and revive and reactivate the Legislative Assembly wherever it may have been dissolved or kept under suspension . If the court strikes down