 A failed candidate filed a writ petition under Arti- cle 226 of the Constitution of India in the High Court of Bombay challenging the results of the M.D. examination held in November  Dr. Rawal was an experienced examiner, not young or immature and a person like him would not proceed to do a criminal act and tamper with the record of the examination on his  The allegations made in the petition disclose a lamentable state of affairs in one of the premier universities of India . The court cannot be oblivious that there has been a steady decline of public standards  The case centers round the conduct of the conduct, if any, the appeal in the appeal . The judgment was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI,  The practical examination was held by the University of Bombay at K.E.M. Hospital, Bombay . The total number of candidates registered for the examination was 52 of which 5 remained absent  The appellant Shri Shivajirao Nilengekar Patil filed an affidavit denying the allegations in para- graphs of the application stating that he played no part in the said examination as  Dr. M.S. Gore, Vice-Chancellor of University of Bombay resigned in 1986 . Shivajirao Ni- langekar Patil resigned as Chief Minister of State  The M.D. theory examination in the instant case was held between 14th October and 17th October, 1985 . The practical clinical examination consists of a long and short case in obst  Dr. Mishra claimed that he over-heard Dr. Rawal telling respondent No. 4 about her poor performance in the examination and suggested that he could do something only if her father  Dr. Rawal tampered with the record of the examination on his own with a view merely to 471 please the people in power . Smt. Chandrakala Patil might  The position that grades were altered was upheld by the division bench . The Division Bench was of the opinion that there might have been various motives which might have induced Dr. Rawal to take  An affidavit was filed claiming the right to adduce certain additional evidence and introducing writings from the magazine INDIA TODAY etc. Such additional evidence was sought to be introduced as part of the  Admissible evidence sought to be introduced mainly consist of alleged instances when the Chief Minister on previous occasions had in respect of some criminal proceedings and other matters pending used his influence to drop those proceedings  Dr. Singhvi submitted that the petitioner/appellant had suffered and would continue to suffer serious civil consequences on account of findings or adverse comments or strictures made by the learned single  It is true that allegation of mala fides and of improper motives on the part of those in power are frequently made . But things are happening in public life which were never even anticipated  Dr. Singhvi urged that the original petition should not have been entertained because of the defective affidavit in this case . The Court has taken cognizance of the matter and certain inferences  The burden of mala fide prima facie lay very heavily on the person who alleged it . The court was justified in refusing to carry out investigation into the allegations if necessary particulars of  In our opinion, the observations must be read in the context of the facts of that case . The observations in that case in our opinion are inapplicable in the instant case .  Such enquiry, however, must be done by a body, the Division Bench suggested, nomi- nated by the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court . Attempt was made to pass