 The Oil and Natural Gas Commission, the Industrial Finance Corporation and the Life Insurance Corporation are created by statutes . The regulations have the force of law and the employees are entitled to the declaration of  The essence of law is that it is made by the law makers in exercise of specific authority . A regulation framed under statute applies uniform treatment to everyone or to all members of some group of  The State is envisaged under Art. 298 as having the right to carry on trade and business . The State as defined in Art. 12 comprehended bodies created for the purpose of promoting  With the advent of a welfare State the framework of civil service administration became insufficient for handling the new tasks which were often of a specialised and highly technical character . The distrust of Government by  An employee would get a status which would enable him to obtain declaration for cent nuance in service if he was dismissed or discharged contrary to the regulations . English law has devised no suitable remedy for  Service or employment is basically a contract which is deeply rooted in private law . The scope of the regulations is narrower being usually confined to internal matters of the statutory body such as the conditions of  The Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, hereinafter referred to as the 1956 Act established the Corporation under section 3 of the Act . There was an existing Organisation set up in pursuance  The industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 hereinafter referred to as the 1948 Act establishes the Corporation under section 3 of the Act . The regulations provide inter alia for the holding and conduct  Subordinate legislation is made by a person or body by virtue of the powers conferred by a statute . The validity of statutory instruments is generally a question of vires, i.e.,  Law is a rule of general conduct while administrative instruction relates to particular person . The vires of law is capable of being challenged if the power is absent or has been exceeded by the authority  A company cannot exercise powers unless the company follows the statutory provisions of the Companies Act . The character of regulation has been decided by this Court in several decisions .  Court held that the regulations to be framed by the . Corporation were not to be inconsistent either with the Act or with orders made under section 11 (2) of the Act .  There is no substantial difference between a rule and a regulation inasmuch as both are subordinate legislation under powers conferred by the statute . The Oil and Natural Gas Commission, the Life Insurance Corporation  The British Boardcasting Corporation was held not to be within the province of government because broadcasting was not asserted by the government . The Wireless Telegraphy Act provided for regulation of wireless telegraphy  The Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959 is an Act to provide for the . establishment of a Commission for the development of petroleum resources and the production and sale of petroleum and . products  The Corporation has the exclusive privilege of carrying on life insurance business in India . The sums assured by policies issued by the Corporation including bonuses shall be guaranteed as to payment in cash by the Central  The Development Bank means the Industrial Development Bank of India established under the [Industrial Development of India Act, 1964]. The Corporation shall have the right to take over the management or possession of  The Industrial Finance Corporation is under the complete control and management of the Central Government . Citizens cannot be shareholders . No other insurer can carry on life insurance business . The dissolution can be only by  The conclusion of the High Court that the regulations have not the force of law is set aside is the conclusion that the conclusion should not be permitted to enforce the regulations mentioned in the . conclusion  The question whether a corporation set up under a statute to carry on a business of public importance is a 'state' despite the fact that it has no power to issue binding directions has to  In Great Britain, the conduct of basic industries through giant corporation is now a permanent feature of public life . The motivation for the creation of public corporation naturally plays much larger part in under-  The growing power of the industrial giants, of the labour unions and of certain other organized groups, compels a reassessment of the relation between group power and the modern state on the hand  Article 13 (2) provides that no State shall make any law which takes away or abridges the right guaranteed by Part III . It is the State action of a particular character that is  The state may aid a private operation in various ways other than by direct financial assistance . It may give the organization the power of eminent domain, it may grant tax exemptions, or it may  The state today has an affirmative duty of seeing that all essentials of life are made available to all persons . Activities which are too fundamental to society are by definition too important not to be considered  Recent English cases appear to move towards the abandonment of the totally antiquated notions of 'proper' functions of government . The Life Insurance Corporation and the Industrial' Finance Corporation would come with  The Court took the view that the Road Transport Corporation was a corporate body and has a separate personality and, therefore, the business carried on by it was its own . business and the State  The rule that an employer can arbitrarily 656 discharge an employee with or without regard to the actuating motive, is a rule, settled beyond doubt . The rule became settled at a time  In McClelland v. Northern Ireland Health Board, the House of Lords decided that the express term which provided for dismissal in case of misconduct and inefficiency was exhaustive of the grounds  It was a private limited company registered under the name of Mysore Iron & Steel Limited, Bhadravati. The shares of the company were held per cent (1) [  The Governor of Mysore was entitled to appoint all or a majority of the members of the . Board of Directors so long as the Government of . Mysores held not less than  The fact that the President of India and certain officers hold all its shares does not make the company an agent of the President or the Central Government . The question whether a corporation is an agent  The Life Insurance Corporation was established by the [Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956]. Under s.49 of the Act the Corporation may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by  The word "order" in the General Clauses Act is not used in the same sense that word is used in England where orders are excluded from the statutory definition of statutory rules as being  The Government has no rule making power conferred on the Central Government . Only the Council has the power to make regulations .  Under the Indian Legislative practice rules are what the Central Government or the State Governments make and the regulations are made by any institution or Organisation established by a statute . An institution like the Life Insurance  Service or employment is basically a contract which is deeply rooted in private law . A mere standardisation or enumeration of the terms of a service contract is not, therefore, ordinarily sufficient to  There is no reason in principle why a different result should follow just because a corporation happens to be established by a statute whereas it is different in the case of a company . Whether an institution  The science of government denies its essential nature, the Court said . The Court said that Article 298 of the Constitution cannot be resorted to for supporting the proposition .  The reference to Article 297 of the Constitution in relation to the Oil & Natural Gas Commission's case is not apt either . Article 297 does not declare that all oil wherever found is the property  In Halsbury's Laws of England (3rd ed., Vol. 9, p. 40) the law is set out thus :"All regulations made by a corporation and intended  The Rajasthan State Electricity Board v Mohan Lal is a very important decision . None of the functions with which the three corporations under consideration are concerned, are governmental or quasi-governmental  The Board was given powers to give directions the disobedience of which was punishable as a criminal offence . The Board is, in my judgment, "other authority" within the meaning of Art.  The decision in I.A.C. v Sukhdeo Rai (1971 (Supp) SCR 510) had to consider the case of the Indian Airlines which is one of  An argument of his was that these employments are a matter of personal service and therefore the test whether the contract could 682 be specifically enforced should be taken into consideration in deciding whether a  Article 14 and 16 would provide amply opportunities for endless litigation . We would at once at one stroke be creating a large mass of neo-Government servants . In the name of industrial action  The Finance Corporation is an authority within the meaning of Art. 12 of the Constitution . The conclusion of the High Court that the regulations have not the force of law is set aside . The