 Constitution of India, 1950: Article 141--Policy of courts is to stand by precedent and not disturb settled point . Petitioners are retired railway employees who were covered by the Railway Contributory  All Railway employees both in service and pensioners constitute one family and must be treated as one class . Government's obligation to look after retired Railway employees under the pension scheme and the provident  The rules governing the Provident Fund and its contribution are entirely different from the rules governing pension . An imaginary definition of obligation to include all Government retirees in a class was not decided and could  The petitioners are retired railway employees who were covered by or had opted for the Railway Contributory Provi- dent Fund Scheme . It is the petitioners' case that before 1957 the  Railways also implemented Nakara's Judgment and extended the liberalised pension benefits even to those employees who had retired long before the liberalisations concerned were introduced . This has, according to the  Gener- al refutes argument that each of the options was meant to give the P.F. retirees option to switch over to Pension Scheme . He relies on the following statements to substant  Pension Scheme Pension Scheme was introduced on the Railways on 16.11.57 and was applicable to all non-pensionable Railway servants who were in service on 1.4.  Family Pension Scheme was liberalised for em- ployees who die while in service . A fresh option was given to staff to come over to pension scheme on 26.10.62 .  An organised labour argued that the options actually exercised upto 31.12.78 should be treated valid even though such cases may not have been decided by that date . The clarifica  All Railway servants who were in non-pensionable service on 15.11.57 prior to introduction of pension scheme on Railways were granted option to have retirement benefits regulated by the  Fourth Central Pay Commission has now recommend- ed that all CPF beneficiaries in service on January 1, 1986, should be deemed to have come over to the Pension Scheme on that date .  The cut-off dates were not arbitrarily chosen but had nexus with the purpose for which the option was given . The entire case of the petitioners is sought to be based on the decision  The doctrine of precedent, that is being bound by a previous decision, is limited to the decision itself . It does not mean that this Court is bound by the various reasons given in support  The Second Central Pay Commission (1957-58) did not recom- mend any increase in the non-contributory retirement bene- fits . In 1979, Government of India  The Court wanted to know what was the purpose in prescrib- ing the pensioners between those who retired prior to the specified date and those who retired subsequent to that date and why  The eligibility for liberalised pension scheme of 'being in service on the specified date and retiring subsequent to that date' in impugned memoranda, Exs. P-1 and  The Railway Contributory Provident Fund is by 381 definition a fund . The Government's obligation towards an employee under C.P.F. Scheme to give the matching contribution begins as  Only employees who retired after the specified date and before and after the date of notifi- cation were made eligible . Option once exer-cised was told to have been final  In the Report of the Fourth Central Pay Commission, in Chapter 9 the Commission has discussed the State Railway Provident Fund Scheme . The number of employees who retired under the CPF and SR  In para 9.6, the Commission said that the P.F. and pension schemes are structurally different . It has been urged that the liberalisation in the pension scheme needs to  P.F. retirees and pension retirees having not belonged to a class, there is no discrimination. The actual burden would be less than half. This compared to the current budget of pensions