 1967 SC 1081; 1967 (1) SCR 373 (16 September 1966) V. RamasWAMI, V. K. SUBBA (CJ) HIDAY  The appellant was the Zamindar of Pargana Agori lying to the south of Kaimur Range in the district of Mirzapur . On October 4, 1950,  An award was made by the Land Acquisition Officer on January 7, 1952 stating that the amount of compensation was Rs. 23,638/13/7 . A reference to the Civil  The power conferred on the Government by the Act is a limited power in the sense that it can be exercised only where it is for a public purpose . If it appears that what the Government  It was contended that the land in dispute was "forest land" covered by a large number of trees and cannot be treated as "waste land or arable land" within s.  S. 17(1) of the Act is not attracted to the present case and the State Government had therefore no authority to give a direction to the Collector to take possession of the lands  The power of the State Government has been formulated under s. 17(4) of the Act can be challenged as ultra vires in a Court of Law if it could be shown that  The ancestors of Raja Anand Brahma Shah had owned the paraganas of Agori and Barhar since the 13th century . Raja Adil Shah was granted a San  Adil Singh Zamindar of Parganah Agori is required to bring it into cultivation obeying the orders of the Aumil and having the interest of Raja Mah  A reading of the two Sanads supports the case of the appellant that there is no reservation of mineral rights in favour of the Government . The expression used in the Sanad of 1803  Pargana Agori was permanently settled under the provisions of the Benares Regulation 1 of 1795 . The rights of the zemindars to sub-soil minerals under their  The Government never asserted its claim to mineral rights possessed by the zemindars . Other documents support the view that the mineral rights and sub-soil rights in the area belonged to  The State of Uttar Pradesh v. Raja Anand Brahma Shah and vice-versa (1) pronounced today we have held that the intermediary interest of the appellant in respect of