 The Press Trust of India (P.T.I.) and the Indian National Press Ltd. filed writ petitions challenging the order of the Government accepting the recommendations of the Wage Board . The  The P.T.I. has been placed in the category of Class II instead of class III, to which it admittedly belongs . There is no indication as to what extent the Wage  Employers could only meet the claim of the employees, but could not meet the recommendation for a wage higher than that asked for . Employers were only able to meet the request of the  The Indian Federation of Working Journalists is the second respondent in the case . Express Newspapers (Private Ltd. etc. v. & Anrr. v The 503 (The 503)  Union of India and others held certain provisions of the Act to be ultra vires . It held that the impugned Act, judged by its provisions, was not such a law but  Court said 505 "There is considerable force in these contentions, but we do not feel called upon to express our final opinion on this question" Parliament amended the provisions of the Act,  Petitioners in writ petition filed by the Press Trust of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the P.T.I.) complain of violation of Arts.14, 19 and  The P.T.I. and the United News of India-hereinafter called 'the U.N.I.'-both national agencies, instead of putting them in the  The definition of the term "newspaper establishment" is provided for on understanding of the statutory provisions to facilitate brevity and to avoid all that is mentioned in the definition being repeated over  The average net profit of the, P.T.I. for three, years, i.e. 1963-1965 is Rs. 3.87- lakhs . Average net  Salim Merchant's award of 1960 was based on the recommendations of the Press Commission Report of 1954 which formed the basis of the Award of 1960 . The recommendations were based on certain premises which  Out of the total subscription revenue, only roughly 30 per cent is contributed by the shareholders, i.e. out of total number of 170 newspapers subscribers, only 90 are shareholders . The  The wage bill has to come out of the revenues and net profits arise only after deductions are made from the gross revenue of any particular year . The argument that the increased, wage burden has  In that case it was observed that if the Board had considered this aspect they would have been reluctant to accept any challenge to the validity of the decision on the ground that their capacity' to  The wage fixation by the Central Government under s. 12 of the Act is not based upon the dispute or demand, and if the wages are fixed according to what has been asked for by  P.T.I. is prepared to pay all its employees the wages agreed to by the very Federation which had made representation before the Wage Board from the date directed by the order .