 The appellant was convicted and sentenced under the [Contempt of Courts Act, 1971], by a Full Bench of the Orissa High Court . The appellant's career as a judicial officer was  The imputations have grossly vilified the High Court tending to affect substantially administration of justice and, therefore, the appellant was rightly convicted of the offence of criminal contempt .  Scandalisation of the court is a species of contempt and may take several forms . A common form is the vilification of the Judge . If the attack on the Judge substantially affects administration  The unique power to punish for contempt of itself inheres in a Court qua court, In its essential role of dispenser of public justice . Purely administrative acts like recruitmerits  The key note word is 'justice, not 'judge', the 'key note thought is unobstructed public justice, not the self defence of a judge' Remedial process cannot  An appeal by one Baradakanta Mishra from his conviction and sentence under the [Contempt of Courts Act, 1971] by a Full Bench of the Orissa High Court .  The appellant was appointed by the Government as the Commissioner of Endowments . His services were placed at the disposal of the Government in the Law Department, who appointed him as Joint Secretary .  On March 30 1972 the appellant was placed under suspension and his headquarters were fixed at Cuttack . The High Court was of the view that no appeal lay from an order of suspension pending  The appellant was sentenced to two months simple imprisonment, though in their opinion he deserved the maximum sentence of six months . The Fall Bench came to, the unanimous conclusion that Annexures 8,  The High Court at para 61 of the judgment has observed as follows : "In the appeal memo (Annexure-8) the condemner attributed mala fides, bias and  Annexnexure 16 purports to be a representation made by the appellant direct to the Governor without routing it through the High Court . Full Bench underlined passages underlined by the Full  The Full Bench in its judgment has considered each one of them allegations in the appeal memo and shows how the insinuations were false and how plain facts were distorted . The law applicable to this  Sub-clause (1) refers to one species of contempt of which "obstruction" is an important element . Punishment is inflicted not for the purpose of protecting either the court  The right of appeal does not give the right to commit contempt of court, nor can it be used as a cover to bring the authority of the High Court into disrespect and disregard . The  It is important to remember that disciplinary control is vested in the court and not in a Judge as a private individual . Control, therefore, is a function as conducive to proper administration of justice  Scandalization of the court is a species of contempt and may take several forms . A common form is the vilification of the Judge . An unwarranted attack on him for corrupt administration  The exercise of the punitive jurisdiction is confined to cases of very grave and scurrilous attack on the court or on the Judges in their judicial capacity . Mr. Sen has argued that  There is no such thing as a denigration of a Judge function-wise. The Chief Justice alone had no administrative control over the subordinate courts but only the High Court .  There were six contempt proceedings against the appellant and the court had treated him generously . In two proceedings he was let off with a fine . In the present case the Full Bench was of the  A: Full Bench of the High Court convicted the appellant for contempt, the action itself having been initiated by an administrative full court . The legal touchstone adopted by the . High Court is  The dominant theme in American philosophy of law today must be the concept of change-or revolution-in law . Law must keep pace with the rule of life, says McWhinney  The unique power to punish for contempt of itself inheres in a Court qua Court in its essential role of dispenser of public justice . The quintessence of the contempt power is  Just because the holders of judicial office are identified with the interests of justice they may forget their common human frailties and fallibilities . Judges are supposed to be men of fortitude,  Court of Appeal ruled that the law of law does not apply to the public's rights to freedom of expression . The case was decided by the Supreme Court of England and Wales against the law  A letter to the President of the Congress party complaining about the appointment of a judicial officer who was the brothirin law of the, Private Secretary of a 'Minister (belonging  The Allahabad High Court punished the late Shri C. Y. Chintamani and, Shri K D. Malaviya for publishing a criticism to- the effect that  A large margin must be allowed for allegations in remedial representations but extravagance forfeits the protection of good faith . In this case reckless excess has vitiated what otherwise could have been  A liberal margin is permissible in such cases but batting within the crease and observing the rules of the game are still necessary . Lord Denning, in the famous Quintin Hogg case  Contention was persisted in C. K. Daphtay v O. P. Gupta . The Court being the guardian of people's rights, it has been held repeatedly that the  Appeal No. 41 of 1973 of 1973 dismissed . Appeal no. 77 allowed to be withdrawn .