 President's Reference-Customs duties and duties of excise- Parliament's power to levy such duties on the property of States- Direct and indirect taxes- Distinction, if valid under Constitution  An exception has been engrafted in Art. 289 (1) in favour of States granting them immunity from certain kinds of Union taxation and it is necessary that the general Words of the exemption  The main question, on this reference by the President of India under Art. 143 (1) of 792 the Constitution, depends upon the true scope and interpretation of Art. 289 of  It is proposed to introduce in Parliament a Bill, the draft of 'which is annexed here to and marked "Annexure", to amend for the purpose aforesaid sub-section (  President Rajendra Prasad, President of India, refer the following question to the Supreme Court of India for consideration and report of its opinion .  The true meaning of Art. 289 is to be derived not only from its language but also from the scheme of the Indian Constitution distributing powers of taxation between the Union and the States . The  The distinction sought to be made on behalf of the Union between tax on property and tax in relation to property is wholly irrelevant; cl. (2) of Art. 289 is not explanatory  Art. 289(1) says "the property and income of a State shall be exempt from Union taxation" Art. 284 says property vested in the Union is exempt from all taxes imposed  Part XII of the Constitution relates to "Finances etc." at the they outset Art 265 lays down that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law .  The imposition of customs duties 807 or excite duties may be either (1) with a view to raise revenue or (2) to regulate trade and commerce, both in land and  Part XII of the Constitution has made elaborate provisions as to the revenues of the Union and of the States . Sources of revenue allocated to the Union are not meant entirely for the purposes of the  Art. 289 provides for exemption of the property and income of a State from Union taxation . The contention on behalf of the States is that when . Art 289 (1) provides for .  Clause (1) of Article 289 provides that the property 'of the Union shall be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State' Clause (2)  Art. 289 refers not only to lands and buildings but to all property of a State, whether movable or immovable and exempts it from Union taxation . The High Court of Australia  The Privy Council upheld the decision appealed from and held that import duties imposed by the Dominion upon alcoholic liquors imported into Canada by the Government of British Columbia for the purposes of trade was  The High Court held that the words "impose any tax" might be capable of application to duties of customs . But it pointed out that the levying of customs duties was not within  Imposing of an import duty results in a condition which must be fulfilled before the goods can be brought inside the customs barriers, i.e. before they form part of the mass of  Trade and commerce with foreign countries, export and import across customs frontriers and inter-State trade and commerce are all within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union Parliament . The answer to the three  The Sea 828 Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878) was enacted in March 1878 in order to consolidate and amend the law relating to the levy of sea customs duties  The Indian Independence Act, 1947 created the Dominion of India as from August 15, 1947 and the Secretary of State for India as the Crown's responsible agent for Indian affairs disappeared from the Indian  In 1962 the Union Government introduced a draft Bill in Parliament further to amend the [Sea Customs Act, 1878] and the [Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944]. We may  The crux of the problem is the true scope and effect of Art. 289 of the Constitution which we have quoted earlier . Art.289 states that the property and income of a State  The learned Solicitor-General has argued that the intention of the makers 837 of the Constitution must have been to restrict . to a direct tax on property or income, that is  The word 'income' does not occur, but the word 'property' occurs in Art. 285 (1) It states that the property of the Union shall be exempt from all taxes  There are several taxing items in List I and List II which will take in both direct and indirect taxation . The distinction is between the main subject of legislation and a tax in relation thereto .  In Australia, in Australia, activities of the Government have been held to be 'industrial' even though nothing is charged for the services of the services, e. g. municipal road construction  There is nothing in Art. 289 which restricts the comprehensive meaning to be given to the word 'taxation' in Art 289 . The only tax from which the property of a State can  Property vested in His Majesty for purposes of the government of the Federation will be exempt from all taxes imposed by, or by any authority within, a Province or Federated State . Art.  The Government of India Act, 1935 as also the Constitution of' 1950 contained provisions which accepted the principle with a limited application as regards the exemption from mutual taxation . It was held that a  Chapter 1 of Part XII contains provisions which control and govern these relations . The scheme is that there is a distribution of revenues between the Union and the States . Some taxes collected by the Union  The contention that the Union has the power to regulate trade by imposition of customs duties would be' annulled if the State has immunity from them in respect of things imported or exported by  A constitutional problem having an apparent similarity with a problem arising under a different Constitution may not be sure guide as a solution of the problem . Basically, the problem must be solved on the terms  Privy Council in Attorney-General of Britsh Columnbia v. Canada v. Canadian v. British Columnbia . Lord Buckmaster said s.125 of the British North America Act  Section 52 defines the cases in which the power of the Commonwealth is to be exclusive . As regards the State, the broad principle of the division is found in s. 107 which in effect  Higgins J. based his decision on a somewhat different ground . He said that he could not confidently take the ground that a customs duty could not be a tax within the meaning of the word  The Canadian Pacific Railway Company raised the question that it was free from business tax imposed by the City Act, 1947, of Saskatchewan by reason of the exemption clause . The exemption clause provided inter  The issue before us is not the nature of the impost but rather the extent of the immunity granted by Art.289 of the Constitution . The extent of that immunity depends on the true  The proposal is to amend the two sections of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . The question is one of great importance not only to the States but also to the Union . What the  The three Lists contain entries which enable the raising of money by way of taxes, duties and fees . Parliament has power to make laws for the territory of India not included in a State even  Under the Government of India Act, 1935, sections 154 and 155 also provided for similar immunity . In Canada, s. 125 of the British North America Act, 1867, provides .  There are indications in the Constitution itself of compelling force which show that the framers were desiring to avoid some of the implications of these rulings of the Superior Courts of the United States,  The doctrine took in not only property and activities of a Government within its protection but also all means, agencies and instrumentalities by which Government acts . It was only after, many years that  The Tariff Act of 1922, under which the impost was made. was an Act to provide revenue, to regulate commerce with foreign countries, and to encourage the industries of the U  Non-discriminatory tax could sometimes be laid on the State, provided it did not affect its sovereignty, but because it unduly interfered with the performance of the State's functions of  The exemption is in respect of the "property and income of a State". The exemption of these words appears from other cases under the Canadian and Australian Constitutions .  The word 'tax' was used only in s. 114 and did not carry the wide meaning, and coupled with the word 'property' could not be read to include customs duties .  The words 'tax' and 'taxation' were not defined in the Australian Constitution, whereas they are, in our own . Further, the distinction between 'taxing and a tax  The case was a test case by way of an action by the Crown in the right of the Province to have it declared that it could import liquor into Canada for purposes of sale without paying  The Exchequer Court ruled that the whiskey was not imported for purposes of Government but for trade . The appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of Canada .  The Canadian decisions are based upon the scheme of the British North America Act . Lord Buckmaster referred to the width of s. 125 but pointed out that it could not be read in an  Union claims that customs duty is neither nor a 'tax on property' It is a tax on the movement of goods across the customs frontier and the protection given by Article 289(1)  The word 'property' is wide enough to include immovable as well as movable varieties . Art. 289 departed from the language of the Government of India Act, 1935 by discarding  The word "taxation" is used only in Art. 289 (1) and it must be read with all its wealth of meaning into the first clause of the Article . The definition  The definition may conceivably cover some of them in very special circumstances but the proceeds of those taxes are assignable to the States, and it seems pointless to include them for taxation and then  Parliament in 1951 amended s. 20 of the [Sea Customs Act, 1878], by inserting sub-s. (2) Sub-section says: "The propertyof a State  The proposed amendment is a 'measure designed to put the States on the tax collectors' list' Art. 289 of the Constitution prevents the Union from imposing, or authorizing the imposition of  There is a distinction between direct and indirect taxes cannot be disputed and I heard no submission to the contrary . The question is whether that distinction has any materiality for interpreting the meaning of the  The exemption might have been framed in view of possible direct taxation on certain forms of property under entry 97 of the Union List, read with Art. 248, though such taxes had not yet  "Taxation" includes the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special, and "tax" shall be construed accordingly . If this definition were applied and  S. S. 125 of the British North America Act 1867 ran : "No lands or property belonging to Canadashall be liable to taxation (Provincial)". A lessee of  The precise relationship between clauses (2) and (1) and the question whether the former was a proviso properly so called which had been carved out of the main provision of cl.  Proviso (a) to sub-s. (1) of s. 155 enacted the exemption in the same terms as in the Act of 1926 in favour of the Provin