 Bombay City Civil Court Act of 1948 was passed by the Provincial Legislature of Bombay . First respondent instituted a suit in the High Court of Bombay for recovery of Rs. 11,704 on the  The power of the Provincial Legislature to make laws with re- spect to "administration of justice" and "constitution and organisation of all courts" under item 1 of List II is  The Bombay City Civil Court Act purports to create in additional civil court for Greater Bombay having jurisdicic- tion to try, receive and dispose of all suits and other proceedings of a  Central and Provincial Legislatures can exclude or bar the jurisdiction of the courts in regard to those matters, and they can also confer special jurisdiction on certain courts . The words used in entry 2  A reference to the Acts passed after the enactment of the Government of India Act, 1935, will show that 59 special provisions with regard to the jurisdiction of courts have been made even after the  The courts will not be able to function in the fullest sense unless both the Provincial and Central Legislatures have by piece- meal legislation or otherwise exhausted their power of legislating on all the  It seems to me that the Government of India Act, 1935, did not contem- plate any drastic change in the existing system of adminis- tration of justice, but what it  Bombay City Civil Court has jurisdiction to try a suit based on a promissory note . The court would exercise that jurisdiction by virtue of the authority of the Provincial Legislature .  The Bombay City Civil Court Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) was challenged by the first respondent . The High Court (Chagla C.J. and  "Administration of justice" and "constitution and organisation of courts" in entry 1 of List II, although they might be wide enough, if that entry stood alone, to include  The United Provinces Regularisation of Remissions Act, 1933, was intra vires . He placed reliance on the following observations of Gwyer C.J. in Aliqa Beg  In Khulna Bank case their Lordships asked: "Once it is determined that the pith and substance is money- lending, is the extent to which the federal field is invaded  An appeal from the High Court of Judicature at Bombay dated the 29th March, 1950, in Suit No 240 of 1950, holding that section 4 of the Bombay City Civil Court  The Bombay City Civil Court Act of 1948 came into force on 10th May, 1948 . It was intended to relieve congestion on the original side of the High Court . The Bombay High Court  High Court held that the Act was intra vires the Bombay Legislature . The first respondent, on the other hand, challenges its correctness in regard to the first question . It was said that  In Queen v. Burah, section 9 of Act XXII of 1869 was held intra vires by their Lordships of the Privy Council . Section 9 was a piece of  The High Court in support of its view placed considera- ble reliance on the decision of the Federal Court in Jatin- dra Nath Gupta v. The Province of Bihar(3)  The High Court was in error in holding that section 4 of the City Civil Court Act was void and ultra vires the Provincial legislature . In this view the notification issued under section 4 must  Section 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is void because it confers on the exclusive powers of the Centre . Section 1 of the Act says the Provincial Legislature has no power to make laws  The learned Chief Justice when dealing with this point said as follows:- "If, therefore, the Act deals with administration of justice and constitutes a court for that purpose and confers ordi  Mr. Seervai argued that the only legislative power conferred on the Provincial Legislature by entry 1 of List II was in respect to the establishment of a court and its constitution . Mr.  The three lists of subjects contained in Schedule 7 have not been drawn up with any scientific precision and the various items in them overlap . The point kept in view in drawing up the lists was  Section 4 of the Bombay City Civil Court Act, 1948, is void and inoperative by reason of its amounting to a delegation of legisltive powers by the Provincial Legislature to  The law was full and complete when it left the legislative chamber permitting the Provincial Government to increase the pecuniary jurisdiction of the City Court up to a certain amount which was specified in  The contention of the Bombay City Civil Court Act, which is a piece of provincial legislation, is ultra vires the legislature inasmuch as it purports to endow the City Court  The contention in this form seems to me to be plainly unacceptable . I agree with Mr. Setalvad that the different topics in the same Legislative List should not be read as exclusive  A court cannot administer justice unless it is vested with jurisdiction to decide cases and "the consti- tution of a court necessarily includes its jurisdiction" The distinction between general and particular jurisdiction  It may be that the 'juricism' in the form of the 'vandalism' is allowed and the "jurism" is allowed . It is not the  Bombay City Civil Court Act, 1048, came into force on August 16, 1948 . Bombay Legislature also enacted Act (XLI of 1948) called the Bombay High Court Letters Patent Amendment  The High Court held that section 4 of the Act and the notification issued there- under were ultra vires and void and that the High Court, therefore, had jurisdiction to entertain the suit  The learned Chief Justice expressed the view that the Legislature never applied its mind to the question as to whether the new Court which it was setting up should have a jurisdiction higher than that of Rs  The Crown ob- tained special leave to appeal to the Privy Council . Lord Selborne delivered the judgment of the judgment . He concluded: "Their Lordships think that it is  It is entirely wrong to say that the (1) L.R. 5 I.A. 178.116 Legislature has not applied its mind or laid down any poli- cy  In the view of the view I have ex-pressed above, namely, that section 4 of the . Federal . Court in that case, that the . Provincial . of the Provincial .  The learned Attorney-General urges that administration of justice had been expressly made a provincial subject and that it was only the Provincial Legislature which could make laws with respect to adminration of justice .  The greater power would certainly have included the lesser power of conferring jurisdiction and powers with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II, such as is contemplated by entry 2 in  The Bombay High Court in Jagtiani's case was practically rounded on the doctrine of pith and substance . Entry 1 in List II should be construed and read as conferring on the  The Bombay High Court found it difficult to support the rea- sonings adopted by the High Court in Jagtiani's case . The argument as to the applicability of the doctrine