 Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 as amended by Punjab Act 48 of 1953, Section 62A- Power of State Government to direct the Municipality to impose any tax under section 61-Exemption  The High Court rejected the petition mainly on three grounds . It found that the State Government is entitled under S. 62-A of Punjab Act, 48/1953 to direct the Municipal  The plea of estoppel is not available against the State in the exercise of its legislative or statutory functions . The Government have power to direct the Municipality to collect the octroi  The doctrine of estoppel which burst out into sudden blaze in 1946 and ever since . continues to smoulder due to the consistent maintenance of the original author's interest in its further development  The doctrine of estoppel referred to in High Trees case is to some extent taken care of by section 65 and 70 of the Indian Contract Act . Section 65 provides that when a contract  If properly understood it only held that the authority cannot go back on the agreement arbitrarily or on its own whim . The Indian Constitution as a matter of high policy in public interest has enacted Article  The Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh in C.W. No.444/1968 and C. W. . No. 2975 of 1967 respectively .  Full Bench of the High Court rejected the petition mainly on three grounds . It found that the State Government is entitled under S. 62-A of Punjab Act, 48/1953,  The High Court rejected the plea on the grounds that the petitioners are not the original purchasers of the plots in Fateh Mandi . The petitioners were either descendants of or transf  The High Court was right in pointing out that none of the sale deeds executed by the Municipal Committee in favour of the purchasers was produced before the Court . Strictly, under the  In 1940, the Collector of Bombay, overruling the objection of the Corporation, assessed the new site under S.8 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act to land revenue rising from Rs  M/s. Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd. exported woollen goods to Afghanistan and were issued an Import Entitlement Certificate by the Textile Commissions not for the full  The right of the Government on relevant considerations such as difficult foreign exchange position or other matters which have a bearing on the general interest of the State, to reduce the amount of import certificate was  The doctrine of promissory estoppel burst into sudden blaze in 1946 when Denning J. sitting in the Court of Kings Bench delivered the judgment in Central London Property Trust Ltd.  Ss. 65 and 70 of the Indian contract Act provide that when a contract becomes void, an obligation is cast on the person enjoying benefit of a non gratuitous act to compensate the  The appellant tried to open a club for officers serving in his Majesty's forces . The club was placed out of bounds for service members by order of the Military Authorities because the club was being  Privy Council quoted passage from Judgment of Rowlatt, J. in Rederiaktiebolaget Amphtrite case . House of Lords in Howell's case disagreed with observations  English Courts did not accept the view of Denning, J. in Robertson v. Minister of Pensions . The house of Lords in Howell v. Falmouth Boat Construction Co. Ltd  The law laid down by the House of Lords in Howell's case has been accepted as correct by this Court . The respondents challenged the validity of the notification issued under the Sales Tax Act .  The plea of equitable estoppel was put forward on the ground that the company established itself in Kerala for the production of rayon cloth pulp on an understanding that the Government would bind itself  The High Court dismissed the petition in limini filed by the Industrialists against the levy of octroi . It was held that the High Court had not given any reason for dismissing the  The Court read the decision in Union of India and Ors. v. Indo-Afghan Agencies (supra) as holding that the Government is not exempt from the equity arising  We are unable to construe the decision in Union of India & Ors. v. M/s. Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd. case in the manner in which it  It was not necessary for this Court in the cases referred to above to refer to Union of India and Ors. v. M/s. Indo Afghan Agencies Ltd., or if  In Kerala it was held that the power of the Government under Article 309 to make rules regulating the conditions of service of Government employees or of teachers of aided schools cannot in any way be effected  The doctrine cannot be invoked for preventing the Government from acting in discharge of its duty under the law . The Government would not be bound by the act of its officers and agents who act beyond  Appeals dismissed with costs of one set to be borne equally by the two appellants . Supreme Court Rules govern the procedure to be adopted by it for regulating its work .