 The respondents, who lost the State Assembly elections as candidates of the Mezo National Front(MNF) from different constituencies of Mizoram, challenged the election of the Congress (I  An election dispute founded on the allegation of corrupt practice being quasi-criminal in nature calls for strict adherence to the requirements of election law as was evident from Section 86(I) of R  The law envisages that the particulars of such allegations shall be set out fully disclosing the name of the party responsible for the same and the date and place of its commission . A simple verification  The requirements of section 81(3) are mandatory and failure to comply with them would render the petition liable to summary dismissal under section 86(I) of the R.P. Act  Fifteen election petitions came to be filed in the Gauhati High Court on March 9, 1989 . One Congress (I) candidate succeeded from two constituencies and one candidate belonged to the  The High Court overruled both the preliminary objections holding, in the case of the first, that there was substantial compliance with the requirements of the relevant provisions . A prayer was also made for  The name of the constituency and the particulars of the petitioner and the respondents are left blank and filled in hand . The petition is stated to be under Sections 80 and 81 of the R.  The petition is verified as under: 'I. SANGura the petitioner herein verify that the facts mentioned in paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 18, 19, 28,  Failure to mention paragraph 3 of the election petition in both the verification clause of the petition and the affidavit filed in support thereof is fatal and cannot be cured after the expiry of the limitation  The Lushai Hills District was renamed Mizo District in 1954 by an Act of Parliament . The Mizo Hill District was replaced by Chakma, Lakher and Pawi Districts  Section 80 says no election shall be called in question except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provisions contained in that part . Section 80A, inserted by Act 47 of 1966,  An election petition must be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof . This provision reflects the anxiety of the legislature to ensure  The law does not require the court, while dealing with an election petition, to construe the pleadings in such a hyper technical manner . The approach of the court should not be to  An election petition calling in question the election of a returned candidate must be founded on one or more of the grounds specified in Sections 100 and 101 for any of the reliefs specified in Section  Section 86(5) as it presently stands 775 empowers the High Court to allow the . `particulars' of any corrupt practice alleged in the petition to or amplified the  An election petition must be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down by the Code for the verification of the pleadings . Under section 83(2) any schedule or annex  The affidavit is intended to support the allegation of corrupt practice and the particulars thereof pleaded in the election petition . Order 19 Rule 3 of the Code provides that affidavits should be confined to such  The defect in the time and place of verification cannot be a fatal defect and can be remedied . In Virendra Kumar Saklecha v. Jagjiwan and Others, the  The election petition under section 83(1)(b) must itself contain all the necessary material facts and in the affidavit in support the petitioner is required to say which of the allegations are based  A charge of corrupt practice has a two-dimensional effect; its impact on the returned candidate has to be viewed from the point of view of the candidate's future political and public life .  An objection raised in the context of section 81 is that the election petition in every case is a mere photocopy prepared from a typed one and the copy of the original was not duly att  The High Court was justified in treating the same as the original election petition . Each copy is attested as `certified true copy' and the petitioner has put his signature thereunder .  A copy 787 of the document was not served on the opposite party alongwith the election petition . The maintainability of an election petition will depend on whether the schedule or annexure to  Some of the paragraphs, e.g., 41 are verified under both heads of the verification clause, thereby causing confusion . We think the High Court committed an error in failing to give appropriate