 The word "election" has by long usage in connection with the process of selection of proper representatives in demo- cratic institutions . Article 329 (b) of the Constitution of India provides  Article 329 (b) was apparently enacted to prescribe the manner in which and the stage at which this ground, and other grounds which may be raised under the law to call the election in  An appeal from an order of the Madras High Court dismissing the petition of the appellant praying for a writ of certiorari . The appellant was one of the persons who had filed nomination  The petitioner can only have his proper relief if the proposed election without him is stayed until his rejected nomination is restored . An injunction staying this election was absolutely neces- sary, unless  The appellant's case is that questioning something which has happened before a candidate is declared elected is not the same thing as questioning an election . The main controversy in this appeal centres round the meaning  The action of the Returning Offi- cer is subject to the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court under article 226 . The word "election" has been used in Part XV of the Constitution  In section 100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, one of the grounds for declaring an elec- tion to be void is the improper rejection of a nomination paper .  Representation of the People Act provides for only one remedy, that remedy being by an election petition to be presented after the election is over, and there is no remedy at an intermediate stage  Section 107(1) of the Representation of People Act, 1949 (12 & 13 Geo. 6, c. 68) in England is drafted almost in the same language as article  All disputes arising out of elections should be postponed till after the elections are over, so that the election proceedings may not be unduly delayed or protracted . If irregularities are commit- ted while  The right to vote or stand as a candidate for elec- tion is not a civil right but is a creature of statute or special law . Strictly speaking, it is the  Article 71 (1) had to be in an affirmative form, because it confers special jurisdiction on Supreme Court . Article 329 (b) was primarily intended to exclude or oust jurisdiction of  The appeal was dismissed by the Indian Supreme Court . The case was adjourned .