 The respondent-landlady had an oral lease of her flat situated in Bombay, since 1952 . She terminated that tenancy by notice in 1970 and instituted a suit for possession on the ground  The High Court held that the appellant was in possession of the premises on 1st February, 1973, and therefore entitled to protection under s.15A of the Act . It concluded that  The High Court exceeded its jurisdiction in interfering with the finding of facts made by the Appellate Court . It should decline to exercise that jurisdiction in the absence of clear cut down reasons where  Licence is a personal privilege to do something on a premises which otherwise would be unlawful . It is not an interest in property but purely a personal right . Grant of licence does not entail  The words of the statute where the language is plain must primafacie be given their ordinary meaning . The courts must find out what is legal, not what is right .  An appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the learned single judge, Bombay High Court dated 20th December, 1985 . The judgment was delivered by SABYASACHI  A Writ Petition filed by the tenant Shri S.P. Rao against the eviction of the tenant was dismissed by the High Court . The appellant produced the agreement of leave and licence when  The agreement between the obstructionist appellant and the tenant was not subsisting on 1st February, 1973 . The agreement is at page 143 of Volume II of the present Paper Book . The  The appellant had been in possession of the premises in question since 1964-65 continuously as a licensee . The Appellate Court concluded that this can reasonably be said that there was a licence  The High Court referred to the full bench decision of the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No. 76 of 1980 mentioned hereinbefore . It asked whether in law the appellant could be considered to  It was laid down by this Court that unless there was any grave miscarriage of justice or flagrant violation of law calling for intervention it was not for the High Court under articles 226 and 227  The writ of Certiorari does not lie in order to bring up an order or decision for rehearing of the issues raised in the proceedings . The courts must guard themselves against the error  The full bench after exhaustive discussion answered question No. 1 referred to hereinbefore in the affirmative and added only to the extent provided by section 5(11) (c) of the said  It was held that the non-obstante clause in the said Act applied to contracts also as these would fall under the provisions of the law relating to contracts . It was further held  The creation of sub-tenant was prohibited by 1959 Amendment of Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 . Sub-tenants  Bombay High Court has held that a statutory tenant whose contractual tenancy did not specifically authorise him to sublet or grant lease cannot create a licence which can be sought to be recognised by section  The Bombay High Court has held that statutory tenant continued to be possessed of the same rights and was subject to the same disabilities as a contractual tenant . The decision of the Bombay Full Bench was  The non-obstante clause in section 15A of the Indian Easements Act protected the operative part of the section should prevail inspite of anything contrary in any law or contract .  Anand Nivas (Private) Ltd. v Anandji Kalyanji Podhi & Ors. v. Anand J. Podhi . The full bench emphasised  The sub-tenant was not bound by the decree obtained by the landlord against Maneklal . The tenant of the premises in that case, according to learned judge, must be  An agreement for licence can continue to take effect only so long as the licensee continues to enjoy a right, title or interest in the premises . On the termination of the licensor's tenancy  There is no reason and there is nothing in the Act or the Statement of Objects and Reasons to indicate that we should give a restricted meaning to the expression 'licence' Bombay High Court  The courts must find out what is legal, not what is right, the judges say . The lines ascribed to Sir Thomas More by Robert Bolt are not without relevance here .  In the premises, in the facts and circumstances of the case as mentioned hereinbefore, the appeal is allowed . The parties shall bear and pay their own costs. In the facts of this