 1977 SC 2328; 1978 (1) SCR 423; 1977 (4) SCC 193 (19 September 1977) CHANDRACHUD, Y.V., Y.  The order was passed without effective consultation with the Chief Justice of India . The decision was made in accordance with Article 222(1) of the Constitution .  President's power to transfer a High Court judge would be reduced to a dead letter if that power is made to depend upon the Judge's consent . Article 222(1) means a consensual  The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public interest and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a judge who does not toe its  It is needless in a broad sense to cut down the width of the words used in Art. 222(1) by making the power of transfer dependent on the . consent of the,  Article 222(1) casts an absolute obligation on the President to consult the Chief Justice of India before transferring a Judge from one High Court to another . The transfer of a High Court Judge  The executive cannot and ought not to establish rapport with the judges which is the function and privilege of the Chief Justice . The judge concerned cannot have reason to complain of Arbitrariness or unfair  The power of transfer is conferred on the President, which means in effect and substance the executive, since the President cannot act save in accordance with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers  Per Iyer J. (On behalf of Fazal Ali J. and himself). He said: "Compounding of the lis cannot lull the court into treating the subject of  The power under Art. 222 is to be exercised only exceptionally and in public interests . The terms "appointment" and "transfer" as used in the Constitution are not interchangeable conveying  The opinion of the Chief Justice of India may not be binding on the Government, but it is entitled to great weight . The power under Art. 222 cannot be exercised whimsically or arbitrarily  The parties to the appeal have arrived at a settlement, the appeal shall stand disposed of in terms of that settlement . Justice Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth was transferred to  The High Court has granted to the Union of India a certificate under articles 132 and 133(1) of the Constitution to appeal to this Court . The Union Government has filed this appeal on  Article 222(1) of the Constitution does not speak of consent . It provides: "The President may, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, transfer a Judge from one High  A non-consensual transfer will provide the executive With a potent weapon to punish the Judge who does not toe its line and thereby destroy the independence of the judiciary . Nearly 25 Judges were  In the United States of America, Judges like George Sutherland and Hugo Black have made fervent pleas that the Court must read the constitutional clauses literally . Other Judges like Benjamin Cardozo have said  Seervai argues that the independence of the judiciary is one of the cardinal features of the Indian Constitution . He says that if a High Court Judge is allowed to be transferred without his consent  Judges of the High Court, by arti- cles 2 1 7 ( 1 ), hold their tenure until they attain the age of 62 and not at the pleasure of the President .  The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public interest and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its  In this view of the matter, it is unnecessary to consider at any length the decisions cited by Mr. Seervai in R. M. D. and The River Wear Commissioner v  It is needless to cut down the width of the words used in article 222(1) by making the power of transfer dependent on the consent of the Judge himself . Mr. Seerv  Mr. Seervai relies in the first place on the constitutional requirement that a Judge, upon being transferred to another High Court, has to take a fresh oath . But that does not  The draft Constitution of India did not contain any provision for transferring a High Court Judge . The drafting Committee incorporated a provision in article 222(1) of the Constitution providing for the transfer of  The record of this case does not bear out the claim that any one of the 16 'High Court Judges was transferred in order to further the cause of national integration . Nothing was to be  Constitution speaks of consultation by the President in three situations in so far as judicial appointments are concerned . Article 124(2) provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the  The transfer of a High Court Judge to another High Court is unconstitutional unless, before transferring the Judge, the President consults the Chief Justice of India . Article 222(1) requires the  Madras High Court in R.Pushpam & Anr. v. Stale of Madras v. R. Subba Rao said the word 'consult' implies a  Court in State of Orissa v. Dr. (Miss) Binapani Dei(3) and A. K. Kraipak v. Union of India(4)  An unusual case where a Judge of a High Court has been compelled to seek justice in a court of law against an unwarranted executive action . It raises questions of great constitutional significance affecting the  Mr. Raman wanted further instructions from the Government of India, the hearing was adjourned to 7th September, 1976 . But the objection was taken orally and was not in writing and  The objection raised by the Government of India amounted to nothing short of a suggestion that it did not have confidence in the impartiality of its own judges . The objection was based solely on the  The Government of India did not choose to disclose the principle on which these 16 High Court Judges were picked out for 461 being transferred . It is strange that the Government should have selected for  High Court Judge is not subordinate to the executive or the legislature . He is as much part of the State as the executive Government . He has a constitutional function to discharge the question whether the  The independence of the judiciary is a fighting faith of our Constitution . The Act of Settlement, 1688 put it out of the 464 power of the Sovereign to dismiss a judge at pleasure  Article 215 confers upon the High Court a power to punish for contempt of itself and thus protect itself against interference in the course of administration of justice from whatever source it may come . Article  Article 222 consists of two clauses which read as follows "22(1) The President may, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, transfer a Judge from one High Court to any  The words of a statute must be understood in the sense which the legislature has in view and their meaning must be found in the subject or occasion on which they are used and the object to  The transfer of a Judge from one High Court to another would ordinarily inflict personal injuries on him . This was in fact admitted by Shri Asoke Sen, the then Minister for Law  High Court Judges are made of sterner stuff and no threat of injury, however grave or serious, would deflect them from doing their duty "without fear or favour" It is essential for  Constitution-makers prized the independence of the judiciary as a cardinal virtue and accepted it as an article of faith necessary for infusing life and meaning in the rule of law . It is incon  The Court cannot interpret a provision of the Constitution by making "a fortress out of the dictionary". The significance of a constitutional problem is vital, not formal : it has to be gathered not  The position under the Constitution is that appointment of a Judge to another High Court can be made by transfer and such appointment would not have to go through the procedure prescribed for a new appointment .  No less than 25 High Court Judges were transferred with their consent in exercise of the power conferred under Article 222 of the Constitution . Article 222 says a judge appointed to a particular High Court could  The public interest in the independence of the judiciary must, therefore, clearly prevail and a construction which subserves this higher public interest must be accepted . The power of the executive to transfer  A Judge assailed his transfer by the President of India from one High Court to another on the ground of violation of mandatory norme, and sought and got 'nor-transferability'  The High Court has no crystal ball to foretell, nor radar to detect the possible executive interference with the independence of the judiciary by the current or later council of ministers . The supremacy of  Shri Seervai gave up the plea of promissory estoppel which had been unsuccessfully urged by him before the High Court . He also stated that the ground of natural justice  The Court could not, even if it would, project its pet aversions to reject progressive policies of Administration even relating to the judiciary . If the Executive use Article 222 to imperil this  Sri Seervai has been at great pains to 'proselytise' us to his viewpoint, if we may appreciatively put it that way . Whether it extends to consent  The independence of the High Court is emphasised by Article 229 which provides that appointments of officers and servants shall be made by the Chief Justice or such other judge or officer as he may appoint  It is the merest commonplace to say that words abstracted from context may be meaningless or misleading . John Dewey is right (as quoted by Reed Dickerson): "No term has  An attempt to be exhaustive about the canons of interpretation and application of statutes is a journey through a jungle . While understanding and interpreting a statute, a fortitude a constitutional code,, the  The words themselves alone do in such a case best declare the intention of the lawgiver . To dissect a constitutional provision meticulously as if it were a cadaver is to miss the  Independence of the judiciary is no speculative nicety nor sweet novelty but a dear creed to defend,liberty . But this noble precept must be perceived as part of and not paramount to the  The 'independence' principle will have to be harmonized with the cause of compelling public interest . We agree with Sri Seervai that the plea that some judges are corrupt is a remedy  Shri Seervai tried to suggest that 'transfer' was used in the company of 'appointment' or in such other milieu as to limit the former to cases of consent  Article 222 does not visualise such second consultation with the Chief Justice and the government of the State to which he is transferred . Neither side has a case that such protocol was adhered to  The parties affected are high-level functionaries and the impact of erroneous judgment can be calamitous . Consultation is different from consentaneity and consent is not a factor specifically within the  A provision empowering the President to transfer a Judge, from one High Court to another can in no way be regarded as marring the independence of the judiciary, given the gloss we have given  Article 217 (1) (c) runs thus :- "The office of a Judge shall be vacated by his being appointed by the President to be a Judge of the Supreme Court or  The word 'request' has been used as a matter of courtesy because the previous consent of the President of India is taken by the Chief Justice of India and then a request is made to  By healthy convention, normally the consent of the Judge concerned should be taken, not so much as a constitutional necessity but as a matter of courtesy in view of the high position that is held  The high legal risk of invalidation of any Presidential order made in the teeth of the Chief Justice's objection, runs in an added institutional protection . Judges of the High Court can enjoy all  Shri Justice Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth challenged the order of his transfer by a writ petition filed in the Gujarat High Court . In pursuance of the order,  The transfer envisaged was a consensual transfer and not a unilateral order of transfer forcing a Judge to go from one High Court to the other . The power conferred on the President is not to  The Government of India declared from time to time has been that for the purpose of national integration an appreciable number of Judges in a particular High Court should be from other States . There,  The order of transfer of ;so many Judges at one and the same time created a sense of fear and panic in the minds of the Judges and others throughout the country . I am not  There is no AU India cadre of High Court Judges in our country . The key to the solution lies in the various Articles of the Constitution itself . Neither in proviso (c)  Proviso (c) provides for the vacation of the office of a Judge of the High Court from which he is transferred . Article 222(1) confers power on the President  It appears that a transferred Judge cannot become a Judge of the High Court to which he- is transferred without taking his fresh oath in accordance with Article 219 and in the form prescribed in the  Public interest may require that he should be so appointed. But at the same time demands non-interference with the independence of the judiciary . I am tempted to adopt the reasoning of Lord  What is done once, if it be allowed, may be done again and in a lesser crisis and less serious circumstances . Such an erosion is contrtry to the clear intention of the Constitution