 The trial Court dismissed the suit but the first appellate Court reversed the decision and the High Court affirmed the decision . The respondent filed a suit contending that he must be deemed to be deemed  The appellant had an independent status having been registered under the Registration of Co-operative Societies Act and was a self-governed or an autonomous body . It was affiliated to the University  The grant of specific relief is, under ss 20 and 34 of the [Specific Relief Act, 1963] as well as under the Common Law, purely discretionary . The exercise of discretion applies  The categories of exceptions to the general rule should not be closed, because, any attempt at rigid and exhaustive formulation of legal rules is bound to stifle the growth of law and cripple  Appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court affirming the decree of the First Additional Civil & Sessions Judge, Muzaffarnagar by which the plaintiff  The plaintiff prayed for an injunction restraining the defendants from interfering with his duties as the Principal of the College . The defence was that the Executive Committee was not a statutory body and therefore was not  The case was decided by the Allahabad High Court against the university . The university is not a statutory body, but it is a body that is governed by statutory provisions . The court said  The High Court, in our opinion, was in error in holding that merely because the Executive Committee followed certain statutory provisions of the University Act or the statutes made thereunder it must be deemed  The Allahabad High Court appears to have placed great reliance on the decisions of this Court in Prabhakar Ramakrishna Jodh v. A.L. Pande  Before ordinance No. 20 was passed under the University Act, the Governing Body had no existence at all . The same, however, could not be said of the present Managing Committee which  The Allahabad High Court's decision on the matter is legally erroneous and must be overruled . We accordingly hold that the decision of the Full Bench of the Allahabad . High Court on  The case is settled that a relief under the Law of Specific Relief Act is a purely discretionary relief . Under Industrial Law a servant who is wrongfully dismissed may be reinstated . This relief is  Mr. Ramamurthi learned counsel for the plaintiff/respondent submitted that the question of discretion would arise only in case where the High Court or this Court is acting in a  The relief of declaration and injunction under the provisions of the Specific Relief Act is purely discretionary and the plaintiff cannot claim it as of right . The relief is more in the nature of an equitable  J. BHAGWATI, J., set aside the order passed by the High Court and the First Additional Civil & Sessions Judge, dismiss the plaintiff's suit and restore the  It seems to be generally recognized that wrongful repudiation of the contract of employment by the employer effectively terminates the employment . The employee cannot refuse to accept the repudiation and seek to treat  Court says damages are a poor substitute for reinstatement in such a case . It would enshrine the power of wealth by recognising the right of the employer to fire an employee by  The Courts are invested with the power to declare invalid the act of a statutory body, if by doing the act the body has acted in breach of a mandatory obligation imposed by law . The  A statement of law enunciated by this Court must be read in the light of the principle which it seeks to effectuate . The third exception is intended to cover cases where by reason  The law enacted in this section operates, irrespective whether the management is or is not a statutory body . When the section says that the termination of service shall not have any effect, the Court