 The petitioner was a member of the Indian Administrative Service in the cadre of the State of Tamil Nadu . The post of First Member Board of Revenue was equated to that of the Chief  The petitioner filed a petition challenging the validity of his transfer from the post of Chief Secretary, first to the . post of Deputy Chairman State Planning Commission and then to the post . of Officer  The court can and certainly would set at naught the declaration of equivalence and afford protection to the civil servant . The post of Deputy Chairman cannot be declared equivalent in status and responsibility to  Per Ray C.J. and Palekar. J: The petitioner was not appointed substantively to the post of Chief Secretary . It is not the case of the State that the  The petitioner's allegations are in aid of suggesting vindictiveness and vengeance on the part of the Chief Minister . Facts and cir- cumstances repel any such insinuation and inn  Petitioner was posted to act as Chief Secretary to Government with effect from the afternoon of 13 November, 1969 vice C.A. Ramakrishnan whose date of superannuation was  The study was conducted at the request of the director of the National Institute of Mental Health in New York City, New York .  Fundamental Rule 13(d) as it stood prior to the commencement of the Constitution provided for the retention of lien on a permanent post while on heave without making any exception with regard  The State, Government may add for a period mentioned there to the cadre one or more posts 35 7 carrying duties and responsibilities of the like nature of a cadre . The post of  Sub- rule (4) of rule 9 states that where equation of posts is not possible the State Government or the Central Government may appoint a member of a service to such a post without  The General Sales Tax Act was enacted in 1959 . The Chambers of Commerce represented Government for simplification and rationalisation of the tax . The post of Officer on Special Duty was entrusted to deal  The petitioner was appointed to the post of Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission on 6 April, 1971 carrying a salary of Rs. 3,500 per month . The post of Officer on Special Duty  The fact that on his refusal to join the posts, some body else was appointed on Rs. 3000/- does not devalue the job . The question for the administration is to choose the  The Chief Minister and the Minister for Co-operation state in their affidavits that action has been taken and is being pursued against all the persons concerned relating to the affairs of the Federation .  The affidavit evidence of the respondents is that the awards were passed by the land acquisition authorities . The Law Department was of the view that land acquisition officers did not advised disciplinary action against the officers  The Chief Minister in his affidavit states that he told the petitioner that action should be taken against the persons who had broken ;the law . He denies that he took the petitioner to task for  Petitioner gave orders to the Inspector General of Police that the goondas should be arrested . Raid was carried out in the night in the Tirupattattur Constituency of  Petition alleges that the Government and the Chief Minister acted malafide against the petitioner because of the stern attitude of the petitioner against the D.M.K. Party .  The Inspector General of Police denies that there was any organised violence . The most significant feature in the allegations of malafides is that when on 7 April, 1971 the petitioner was appointed to  The Chief Minister and the members of his party cannot be said on the affidavit evidence to have committed acts of violence or intimidation . The entire affidavit evidence establishes beyond any measure of doubt that the  The post of First Member, Board of Revenue was, thus equated to that of'the Chief Secretary in rank and status, though the post of Additional Chief Secretary was not . The  The general elections to the Parliament and the State Legislature were held in Tamil Nadu in the first week of March 1971\. The results of the poll were declared on 11th March, 1971 .  Petitioner was transferred from post of Deputy Chairman to post of Officer on Special Duty . Petitioner filed the petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution challenging validity of his transfer from the post  Ramakrishnan was promoted as Chief Secretary in an 'officiating capacity' but the words 'to act' were introduced in the authenticated order by mistake and should therefore be ignored .  It was competent to the petitioner to contend, by reference to the draft order which contained the original decision of the State Government, that the authenticated order did not correctly reflect such decision and suffered  Tamil Nadu could not add the posts of Deputy Chairman, State Planning Commission and Officer on Special Duty under the second proviso, as these posts did not exist in the cadre as constituted  Sub-r. (1) requires that before appointing a member of the Indian Administrative Service to such non-cadre post, the Government must declare which is the cadre post  The only exception is to be found in sub-r. (4) and that applies where the-noncadre post is such that it is not possible to equate it with  The status and responsibility of a non-cadre post for the purpose of determining equivalence cannot depend on who is going to occupy it . This nearly shows that the Government did not  The State Government proceeded on the wrong assumption that it can create a non-cadre post in the rank or grade, of any cadre post it likes, regardless of the nature  Art. 16 gives effect to the doctrine of equality in all matters relating to public employment . The basic principle which, therefore, informs both Arts. 14 and 16 is equality and inhibition against  The post of Chief Secretary was admittedly a selection post and after careful examination of the merits of the senior most eleven officers of the Tamil Nadu Cadre of the Indian Administrative 'Service, the  The post of Officer on Special Duty has not been satisfactorily established by the petitioner to be inferior in' status and responsibility to the post of Chief Secretary . Merely giving the  The burden of establishing mala fides in very heavy on the person who alleges it. The allegations of mala . fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very  Petition dismissed with no order as to costs . No inquiry thereafter took place in affairs of Coom Improvement Scheme .