 Supreme Court has power to take action for contempt of subordinate or inferior courts also-Power to be exercised sparingly--Only when contempt is likely to have repercussions throughout the country . High Courts  Mr. N.L. Patel was posted as Chief Judicial Magistrate at Nadiad in October, 1988 . He soon found that the local Police was not cooperating with the courts in  The CJM found that the Police of Nadiad was not effective in service of summons and had adopted an attitude of indifference to the court's orders . As complaints were forwarded to authorities  The Attorney-General urged that the power to punish contempt is a special jurisdiction which is inherent in a Court of record . Contempt of court is an act or commission calculated to interfere with  The object and purpose of punishing contempt for interference with the administration of justice is not to safeguard or protect the dignity of the Judge or the Magis- trate, but the purpose is  The Supreme Court as the Apex Court is the protec- tor and guardian of justice throughout the land . It has a right and duty to protect the courts whose orders and judgments are am  In India prior to the enactment of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1926, High Court's jurisdiction in respect of contempt of subordinate and inferior courts was regulated by the principles of Common Law  Parliament is competent to enact a law relating to the powers of the Supreme Court with regard to 'contempt of itself' Parliament's power to legislate in relation to the law of contempt  The Federal Court observed that if the High Court and the Federal Court both have concurrent jurisdiction in contempt matters, it could lead to conflicting judgments and anamolous consequences . The Supreme Court  The Supreme Court is duty bound to take effective steps within the constitutional provisions to ensure a free and fair administration of justice through out the country . Ordinarily matters relating to contempt of subordinate courts  The foundation of the criminal trial of CJM-NL Patel is based on facts which have been found to be false . It would be in the ends of justice and also to do complete  Chief Judicial Magistrate S.R. Sharma was arrested, handcuffed, roped, and assaulted by police officers in 1989 . The DSP is sentenced to imprisonment for one month and a  The incident undermined the dignity of courts in the country, Judicial Officers, Judges and Magistrates all over the country were in a state of shock . A number of Bar Associations passed Res  Patel went to the Police Station at 957 8.35 p.m. to see the papers and further his visit would mollify the sentiments of the Police Officials . Sharma,  The main incident of Chief Judicial Magistrate's arrest, assault, handcuffing and roping was connected with several other incidents which led to the confrontation between the Magistracy and  The CJM had directed the regis- tration of a case against 14 accused persons for misbeha- viour and causing obstruction in the judicial proceedings . The accused persons later  Patel had not committed any offence nor he was violent, yet he was handcuffed and tied up with rope without there being any justification for the same . Patel was taken to Civil Hospital handcuffed and  D.K. Dhagal, the then District Superintendent of Police, Kheda exhibited total indifference to CJM's com- plaint regarding the unsatisfactory state of affairs in the  Mere issue of notice or pendency of contempt proceedings do not attract Art. 20(3) of the Constitution as the contemners against whom notices were issued were not accused of any  Contempt proceeding is sui generis, it has peculiar features which are not found in criminal pro- ceedings . A contemner is not in the position of an accused,  The Supreme Court as the protector and guardian of justice throughout the land, therefore, it has a right and also a duty to protect the courts whose orders and judgments are amenable to correction  The Supreme Court has wide power to interfere and correct the Judgment and orders passed by any court or Tribunal in India . The power is plenary in the sense that there are no words in  In Wharton's Law Lexicon, Court of Record is defined as: "Courts are either of record where their acts and judicial proceedings are enrolled for a perpetual memorial and testimony"  In Sukhdev Singh Sodhi's case this Court considered the origin, history and development of the concept of inherent jurisdiction of a court of record in India . The Court after considering Pri  In India prior to the enactment of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1926, High Court's jurisdiction in respect of contempt of subordinate and inferior courts was regulated by the principles of Common Law  The English and Indian authorities are based on the basic foundation of inherent power of a Court of Record, having jurisdiction to correct the judicial orders of subor- dinate courts . The High  Section 15 of the Act reads as under: "Cognizance of criminal contempt in other cases" The High Court and the Supreme Court both have power to take cognizance .  Parliament's power to legislate in relation to law of contempt relating to Supreme Court is limited, therefore the Act does not impinge upon this Court's power with regard to the contempt of  The Raja Soap Factory's case related to the interpretation of the statutory provisions conferring jurisdiction on the High Court . The High Court being a court of record has inherent power in respect  K.L. Gauba, an Advocate of Lahore High Court, was involved in his insolence v A Special Bench . Attorney General argued that there is a marked difference between the  K.L. Gauba's application for the grant of certificate under Section 205 of the Government of India Act to file appeal against the order of the High Court before the Federal Court was  The Federal Court observed that if the High Court and the Federal Court both have concurrent jurisdic- tion in contempt matters it could lead to conflicting judg- ments and anomalous consequences  The Apex Court is duty bound to take effective steps within the constitutional provisions to ensure a free and fair administration of justice . In that situation the Apex Court must intervene to ensure smooth functioning of  The genesis of the unprecedented attack on the subordinate judiciary arose out of confrontational attitude of the local police against the Magistracy in Kheda . The Chief Judicial Magistrate is  Police Inspector Sharma acted in utter disregard of this Court's direc- tion in Prem Shankar Shukla's case . Patel was un- armed, he was at the Police Station  The Chief Judicial Magistrate had consumed liquor and in druken state he went to the Police Station and slapped the Police Inspector, Sharma, thereby he committed offence under the Bombay Prohibition Act and  S.R. Sharma, Police Inspector, Nadiad had preplanned the entire scheme, he deliberately invited Patel to visit Police Station where he was forced to consume liquor and on his  The gravamen of the charge in the two cases registered against N.L. Patel is that he had consumed liquor without a pass or permit and under the influence of liquor, he entered  Article 142(1) of the Constitution provides that Supreme Court in exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete jus- tice in  Court quashes criminal proceedings pending before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Nadiad in Criminal Cases Nos. 1998/90 and 1999/90 . Punishment should be awarded to the contem  K. Dadabhoy was totally indifferent to the news that a CJM was arrested, handcuffed, roped and assaulted . He took this news as a routine matter without taking any  The burden would be on the Police to establish necessity for effecting physical arrest and handcuffing of the Judicial Officer . No Judicial Officer should visit a Police Station on his own except in