 The law made by the Parliament shall prevail, notwithstanding that the Provincial Legislature was competent to make the law prior to the commencement of the Constitution . This is the consequence of the relevant provision of  The Council may, among others, "bcoordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels" Section 1 empowers the Council to associate with itself any person whose assistance  The Council is required to regulate and ensure proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system . It is also required to provide guidelines for admission of students and has power to withhold or  Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation Act makes the Act applicable to all private colleges . The subject covered by this statute is fairly within the scope of Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List  Section 10 entitles the Government to withhold permanently or for a specific period, whole or part of any grant paid under the Act, if the private college does not comply with any of the  Section 53 of the State Act gives power to the Director of Collegiate Education to make rules to carry out the purpose of the Act . Rule II provides that the number of teachers employed in  The appointment of the High Power Committee by the State Government to inspect the respondent- Trust was void as has been rightly held by the High Court . All the other provisions of the Act have  The University is given powers to prescribe terms and conditions for affiliation also of the technical colleges such as the engineering colleges and also the power to disaffiliate such colleges for non-fulfil  Shri Rao contended that the University has an exclusive power to affiliate or not to affiliate and to disaffiliate the colleges . That power cannot be taken away by the Central Act and in  The validity of the State legislation on University education and as regards the education in technical and scientific institutions not falling within Entry 64 of List I would have to be judged to whether it is reserved  Counsel for the University argued that the power conferred by item No.66 of List I is merely a power to co-ordinate and to determined standards . Parliament has therefore power to legisl  A large number of candidates far in excess of the seats available took the test . Thereafter, unsuccessful candidates filed a writ petition challenging the validity of the test prescribed and the method of selection  The validity of the Andhra Pradesh Commissionerate of Higher Education Act was challenged in the High Court in 1987 . The High Court upheld it, saying it was a mere duplicate of the University  The High Court dismissed the appeals and the special leave petitions with costs with costs . It said that the State authority is not prevented from laying down higher standards or qualifications than those laid down by