 The appellant-plaintiff instituted a Regular Civil Suit in the court of Joint Civil Judge, J.D., Ahmednagar for vacant possession of the suit property and also for ar  The Respondent tenant being aggrieved filed a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution praying for setting aside the decree of ejectment passed against him . The High Court held that the said  The appeal leave is directed against the judgment and order passed by the High Court at Bombay in Writ Petition No. 1689 of 1987 . The defendants were in possession of a part of the  The plaintiff issued a notice dated 15.12.1977 of ejectment and demanded No. 1 after receipt of the notice sent Rs. 571.92 ps. by Money Order .  The plaintiff had been residing on the first floor of the suit premises, which consisted of 4 rooms, first one bed room towards west admeasuring 7 fts. x 12 fts  The plaintiff reasonably requires the suit premises for the purpose of opening of office of her husband as Tax Consultant . The demand of the plaintiff is therefore, reasonable and bona fide . The defendant  Nalin Narsi Vohra filed a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution being registered as Writ Petition No. 1689 of 1987 in the High Court of Judicature  The High Court allowed the writ petition and made the rule absolute and set aside the judgments and decrees made by the courts below . The instant appeal on special leave has been filed at the  The lower appellate court that admitted the application for additional evidence failed to consider at all the fact that a very specious bungalow comprising of about 2000 sq. ft. had already been  The lower appellate court did not at all consider whether the first floor of the suit premises as well as the second floor which though claimed to be a shed, could be conveniently utilised for  In Pasupuleti Venkateswarlu v. The Motor & General Traders, [[1975] INSC 74]; [[ 1975] 3 SCR 958] It has  In the instant appeal it has been held by the High Court after considering the subsequent facts and materials brought out by the application for additional evidence that the plaintiff failed to prove reasonable and bona fide