 Section 12 of the Delhi School EdUcation Act is to make sections 8,9,10 and 11 inapplicable to unaided minority schools . Frank Anthony Public School is  Petitioner association sought equalisation of their pay scales and conditions of service with those of their counterparts in Government Schools . Frank Anthony Public School would have to close down if section 12 was struck  It follows that regulatory measures designed to make minority educational institutions effective instruments for imparting education cannot be considered to impinge upon the right guaranteed by Article 30(1) of the Constitution .  Section 8(4) would be inapplicable to minority institutions if it had conferred blanket power on the Direc- tor to grant or withhold prior approval in every case where a  The scales of pay of teachers, primary, T.G.T. or middle, and senior school teachers of the Frank Anthony Public School New Delhi compare unfavourably with those of  Frank Anthony Public School Employees Association has sought from this Court a declaration that section 12 of the Delhi School Education Act is unconstitutional as being violative of Articles 14, 21 and 23 of the  Section 2(h) defines 'employee' to mean "a teach- er and includes every other em- ployee working in a recognised school" "Minority school" is  Section 10(1) requires the managing committee of every aided school to deposit every month its share towards pay and allowances, medical facilities etc. of all the employees of such schools . Section  Section 12 makes Sections 8, 9, 10 and 11 inapplicable to unaided minority schools . Section 13 enables Administrator to make regulations even in respect of un aided minority  The article gives certain rights not only to religious minorities but also to linguistic minorities . It does not say that minorities based on religion should establish educational institutions for teaching religion only .  Anglo-Indian Schools which received no more aid than that to which they were entitled under the Constitution could not be subjected to stringent terms as fresh or additional conditions precedent to obtain the grant .  Sub-Clause (4) of C1. 12 was not mentioned by the Court as a clause which could easily be regarded as reasonable regulation . Clause 11 sub- clause (2  The view of the High Court that Subsections (2) and (4) were ultra vires Article 30(1) of the Constitutions in respect of minority institutions was upheld  The right of minorities to administer educational institutions does not, however, prevent the making of reasonable regulations in respect of those institutions . The State can prescribe regulations to ensure the excellence of the institution  The right con- ferred by article 30(1) is intended to be real and effective and not a mere pious and ab- stract sentiment; it is a promise of reality  Article 30(1) is couched in absolute terms, it does not follows that the right guaranteed is not subject to regulatory laws which would not amount to its abridgement . Even  In All Saints High School etc. v. The Government of Andhra Pradesh, v. Chandrachud, C.J. upheld the vires of Section 51A and Section  Fazal Ali, J. held that Section 3(2) was violative of Arti- cle 30(1) of the Constitution and would have no application to minority institutions  Section 10 requires that scales of pay and allowances, medical facilities, pension, gratuity, provident fund, and other prescribed benefits of the employees of the recognised private school shall not be  The manage- ment of minority institution cannot complain of invasion of the fundamental right to administer the institution when it denies the members of its staff the opportunity to achieve the very object of Art.  Section 8(2) provides for an appeal to the Tribunal constituted under Section 11, that is, a Tribunal consisting of a person who has held office as a District Judge or any equivalent  Section 12 of the Delhi School Education Act is discriminatory and void except to the extent that it makes Section 8(2) inapplicable to unaided minority institutions . Section 8  The fear expressed by the management here has the same ring as the management of every industry that disas- trous results would follow which may even lead to the clos- ing down of