 P.K. Raman Nair was the proud father of 14 children from two wives, the first being Ammu Amma, who is the mother of the respondents 1 to 9  The High Court was of the opinion that the provisions of Section 16 of the Hindu Marriage Act were not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution . Marriage, according to Hindu Law, is  The terms prescribed by the Dharam Shastras, secure to the wife a high and strong position . The marriage becomes indissoluble and each party becomes the complementary half of  It does not imply that the first wife is actually forsaken, or that her place is taken by the second, in respect of any matter except perhaps the husband's affection . Mr.  Hindu society derided a second marriage and rejected it altogether . The touch of religion in all marriages did not allow polygamy to become part of Hindu culture . Children born of such marriage were not  The Marumakkattayam Act, 1932 was repealed by Section 7(2) of the Kerala joint Hindu Family system (Abolition) Act, 1975 (Act 30 of  The previous operation of Madras Act XXII of 1933 will not be affected by the repeal . Raman had contracted a second marriage, in the lifetime of his first wife, in 1948  The evil of bigamy was sought to be prevented by regional laws made either prior to or after the Constitution of India . This anomaly was removed by repealing Sections 11 and 12 of the Act  Section 4 provides that any child, legitimate or illegitimate, both of whose parents are Hindus, Buddhists, Jains or Sikhs by religion, shall also be a Hindu . Section 5  Child marriage Rastraint (Amendment) Act, 1978 (2 of 1978) was required under section 5 as it stood immediately before the commencement of the Act . No petition for ann  Fatherhood, by contract, is a presumption. A woman can have sexual intercourse with a number of men any of whom may be the father of her child . The status of legitimacy gives  Madras high Court in T. Ramayammal vs. T.Mathummal in 1974 (Madras) laid down that unless a decree of nullity was granted in respect  There is always a presumption that an Act made by the parliament or the state Legislature is valid . Section 16, as originally enacted, fell under this category and we have already geld that  Heydon's Rule is generally invoked where the words in the statute are ambiguous and /or are capable of two meanings . In such a situation, the meaning which avoids the mischief and  Section 16 has been effectively removed by amendment . Section 16(1) now stands on its own strength and operates independently of other Sections . It is constitutionally valid as it does not discriminate between