 Two brothers of the deceased, were eye 'witnesses to the occurrence and according to them there were three other persons who witnessed the occurrence . The trial court accepted the evidence of the  The accused with the lathis must be held to be guilty under s.34 I.P.C. against an accused prior concert or a pre-arranged plan has to  The four respondents herein were tried by the Civil and Sessions Judge for the offence of committing the murder of Sikander Khan on October 16, 1967 . After the filing of this appeal, the  The court examined a student nurse working in the same hospital -L796Sup .C.I./73 332 as C.W. 1 . Notwithstanding the fact that P.Ws 1  The High Court attacked the judgment of the High Court on the ground that before reversing the conviction and sentence passed on the respondents, and acquitting them, the learned Judges have not adverted  It must be stated that in view of the approach made by the High Court, by not considering the various items of evidence and recording suitable findings, both the learned counsel found considerable difficulty in  Unnan Khan and Ibne Hasan and others came there and found Sikander Khan dead . When respondents three and four came with the other accused, they had lathis with them .  The High Court has not given due considera- tion to these aspects also when rejecting the evidence of P.Ws 1 and 2. who are partisan witnesses, has been rightly rejected by  All the four accused surrendered before the Magistrate on November 4, 1967 . On the said date, the first respondent filed a statement saying that on the date, when the murder is alleged  CW 1 has categorically denied that she was ever out in-charge of the ward on October 16. 1967 . She has also denied having made any counting of patients and that at 4  Evidence of defence witnesses does not rule out possibility of first respondent being sent from hospital and his being found at the scene of occurrence as spoken to by the eye witnesses .  The court heard that the shooting of Sikander Khan by Respondents 1 and 2 was done in furtherance of the common intention of all the four accused . All the four Respondents are  All four accused ran away together together after the shooting . The High Court has reversed the finding of conviction on grounds which are 'wholly untenable'  The first Respondent, Iftikhar Khan, son of Mohammad Hasan, was sentenced to death by the learned Sessions Judge . The 3rd and 4th Respondents were sentenced to