 The Labour Court in which the complaints were filed took the view that such complaints were not maintainable as the actual orders of discharge or dismissal were yet not passed by the employer . The Labour  The order dated August 10, 1989, passed by the Presiding Officer, First Labour Court, Bombay, was set aside . The employer-company filed Special Leave Petition (C) No  The Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (`B.I.R. Act' for short) applied to certain notified industries . There was also a Central Act, [Industrial Disp  The Maharashtra Act provides for the prevention of certain unfair labour practices . However, there is no provision for preventing any proposed discharge or dismissal by way of unfair labour practice on the part of the  The Act sought to supplement and cover the field for which the concerned industries governed by the then I.D. Act and B.I.R. Act did not get any coverage .  The Division Bench of the High Court for coming to its conclusion relied upon the words "to discharge or dismiss employees" as found in Item 1 of Schedule IV . We find that the term  Section 27 of the Maharashtra Act gets attracted even at a prior stage when such unfair labour practice is sought to be resorted to by the employer . Clause (g) of Item 1 of Schedule  Section 28(1) of the Maharashtra Act contemplates types of complaints which can be filed under the Act . The competent Court as per Section 7 of the Act will be the Labour Court  Employers can be said to be presently engaging in any such unfair labour practice . Employers are alleged to be engaged in discharging any employee even before the actual order of discharge is passed  Sub-section (2) of Section 30 of the Maharashtra Act lays down that the Labour Court can pass interim relief of temporary relief or restraining order . This clearly indicates that the complaint can  The Bombay High Court was in error when it took the view that unfair labour practice is not punishable under the Maharashtra Act . Section 25-T of the Industrial Disputes Act prohibits an employer  The Maharashtra Act is a social welfare legislation and in interpreting such a welfare legislation, such a construction should be placed on the relevant provisions which effectuates the purpose for which such legislation is enacted  Lord Diplock said in 1975: 'I am not reluctant to adopt a purposive construction where to apply the literal meaning of the legislative language used would lead to results which would  A mere threat to discharge or dismiss an employee if he joins a union by itself may be an unfair labour practice as per Item 1(a) of Schedule II . Even a threat is  The Infinitive is a kind of noun with certain features of the Verb, especially that of taking an object (when the Verb is transitive) and adverbial qualifiers . The  Complaint can be filed not only when the final act of unfair labour practice is committed, but at a stage where any firm action is taken towards reaching the final goal of discharging or  Employers have a right to take disciplinary actions and to hold domestic enquiries against erring employees . But for doing so, the standing orders governing the field have to be followed by such