 The appellant as the proprietor of Nada-un Jagir sued to establish his title to chil (pine) trees standing on lands within the Jagir but belonging to the respondents  Raja Rajinder Chand brought six suits in the Court of the Subordinate Judge of Kangra for a declaration that he was the owner of all pine (chil-pinus long  Raja Rajinder Chand preferred appeals from the judgment and decrees of the learned Subordinate Judge, and the appeals were heard by the learned District Judge of Hoshiarpur . The  The last independent ruler of Kangra was Raja Sansar Chand who died in the year 1824 . His aggressive nature led him on in his bold designs and be fell at last a  Jodhbir Chand 896 remained conspicuous for his fidelity to the British Government . Raja Parmudh Chand raised the standard of rebellion in Kangra in 1848 . Raj  Mr. Lyall gathered valuable historical data regarding the conditions of land tenure which prevailed in the district of Kangra under the old Katoch Rajas . The rights of the last independent Kat  The learned District Judge was wrong in thinking that, according to the system of land tenure which prevailed under the old Rajas or, under the Sikhs, Raja Jodhb  The question now is whether the Sanad was a grant primarily of land revenue; or it made a grant of other royal rights including the right to all 902 pine trees . The San  Raja Jodhbir Chand was granted the right to all pine trees on cultivated and proprietary lands . Raja's claim was based on entries in the Wajib-ul  Mr. O'Brien decided that the Raja was superior proprietor or Talukdar of all lands in his Jagir, and the occupants were constituted inferior proprietors of their own  In Ex. P-5 the relevant entry in para 11 was: "The owners shall, however, have no right to pine trees" The question-before us is as' to  We have already held that the appellant did not get the sovereign right of the independent Katoch rulers; nor did the grant made in 1848 give him any right to the royal trees .  The Raja Sahib was to get 15 per cent. on the net revenue in respect of the entire land owned by the adna- maliks as talukdari dues  An attempt was made in the High Court to get some of the unpublished original documents of Government to clarify the entries in the Wajib-ul-arz . The Government of the  Appeals fail and are dismissed . The High Court properly directed that there would be no order for costs either in the High Court or in the Courts below .