 An appeal by trustees of the ancient and renowned temple of Sri Venkataramana of Moolky Petta, who were managing the temple on behalf of the Gowda Sarasw  The right of a religious denomination to manage its own affairs in matters of religion is subject to, and can be controlled by, a law protected by Art. 26(b), throwing open  In 1915, a suit, 0. S. No. 26 of 1915, was instituted in the Court of the Subordinate Judge of South Kanara for framing a scheme for this temple  Madras Legislature enacted the Madras Temple Entry Authorisation (Amendment) Act (Madras XIII of 1949), amending the definition of ,temple' in s. 2(  Trustees of Sri Venkataramana Temple at Moolky claimed that the institution being a denominational one, it had a right under 902 Art. 26(b)  The Sri Venkataramana Temple at Moolky, a temple as defined in s. 2 (2) of Madras Act V of 1947, is a denominational temple  The Sri Venkataramana Temple at Mookly is a public temple, and that it is within the operation of Act V of 1947 . The next question is whether the suit  The Sri Venkataramana Temple at Moolky is a denominational institution founded for the benefit of the Gowda Saraswath Brahmin community . The fact that other classes  There has been difference of opinion among the writers as to whether image worship had a place in the religion of the Hindus, as revealed in the Vedas . The conception had become established of  Article 25(2)(b) enacts that a law throwing open public temples to all classes of Hindus is valid . Article 26 runs as follows: "Subject to public order, morality  In Gopala Muppanar v. Subramania Aiyar (Supra), Sadasiva Aiyaar J. observed as follows at p. 258: "  Article 25 (2) (b) applies in terms to all religious institutions of a public character without qualification or reserve . Article 26, it was contended, should be construed as falling wholly  It is argued that any law which infringes the right under Art. 26 (b) is invalid, and that s. 3 of Act V of 1947 must accordingly be held to have  The modifications relate, according to the view taken by this Court in The Commisssioners Hindu Religious Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha  Members of the public had the right to worship in the temple except with permission from the Gowda Saraswath Brahmin community . This would clearly be a denomi- national right .