 Sugarcane Purchase Tax Act, 1961 was declared ultra-vires . The Act imposes a rate of tax at the rate of Rs. 1.25 paise per quintal of  Tika Ram's case deals with the identical question of "controlled industry' vis-a-vis U.P. Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act,  Khandsari units are cottage industries unlike sugar factories and need legislative succor for survival . Their economy justifies State action, classifying them as apart from factories . The tax is only on  From the Judgment and order dated 5-4-1972 of the Allahabad High Court in C.M.W. No. 2278/70 . Shanti Bhushan (  A broad brush projection of the fiscal story and back ground economy may now be attempted, although we regret that no authoritative material, beyond what can be culled from the High Court judgment,  The Basti Sugar Mills Company Limited paid Rs. 7,00,000/- less than the Seksaria Sugar Mills Private Limited for the same quantity of sugarcane . The High  The U.P. Sugarcane (Purchase Tax) Act is a reincarnation of the Cess Act but, in a legislative sense, it is an independent statute with a different  The Purchase Tax Act is a successor to the cess which was struck down, but jurisprudentially, the levies are different in character and attributes and constitutionally, the impost  The charge is on the purchase transaction payable by the owner of the factory or 'unit 'on such date, at such place and in such installments as may be prescribed' (Sec.  Tika Ramji's case (supra) deals with the identical question of 'controlled industry' vis-a-vis U.P. Sugarcane (Regulations of Supply  Tika Ramji argued that the Purchase Tax Act was a usurpation by the U.P. Legislature, the Provincial Legislature was not entitled to legislate upon the same subject .  An acquisition of land for sugar mills or of sugar mills may affect the industry but is not an action in the legislative field forbidden for the States . Sales tax on raw materials going to a  A large latitude is allowed to the State for classification upon: a reasonable basis and what is reasonable 788 is a question of practical details and a variety of factors which the court will be  The High Court has stated that the quantity crushed, the sugar produced and the profits earned, have a substantial linkage . The quality of cane over the whole of Uttar Pradesh varies over a range  Sugarcane tax operates in the neighbourhood of sugar excise but proximity is not identity . The tax is only on purchase of cane, not its conversion into sugar . To buy raw produce is