 Sub-section (2-A) of section 9 introdaced by Central Sales Tax (Amendment) Act 1976 . Applicability of provisions relating to penalties leviable under general sales  There is no specific provision levying penalties in the Act remains unfilled up even now and hence no penalties can be recovered by utilising the provisions of the general sales tax laws of the  The question whether there has been excessive delegation or abdication of legislative power has to be decided on the meaning of the words in the Statute and the policy behind it . Legislation by  In Article 20(1) the expression 'penalty' is used in the narrow sense as meaning a payment which has to be made or a deprivation of liberty . The word 'pen  There is no dispute about the validity of the tax payable under the Act during the period between January 1, 1957 and the date of commencement of the Amending Act . The 203 dealers had  The judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH, J.N. Poddar, Gopal Subramanium, D.P. Mohanti  A dealer carrying on business in the exporting State became amenable to the sales tax law of the importing State in which the goods were consumed . The result of this decision was that a dealer  The Preamble to the Act states that the object of the Act is to formulate principles for deter mining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of inter-State  The tax payable by any dealer under this Act on sales of goods effected by him in the course of inter-State trade or commerce, shall be levied by the 210 Government of India .  Sub-section (3) of section 9 of the Act virtually carries out the intention of Article 269 of the Constitution by providing that the proceedings in any financial year of any tax, including  Sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Amending Act contains a validating provision . All penalties under the general sales tax law of any State imposed or purporting to have  The principal object of the Act is not the levying of penalties, the principal object is assessment, reassessment, collection and the enforcement of payment of central sales tax . We do not  Parliament has not authorised the State Legislatures to make laws in respect of 218 offences and penalties that may be leviable under the Act . We are of the view that sub-section (  The rates of tax in force at the date when the Central Sales Tax Act was enacted have again not become crystalised . The rate which the State Legislature determines, subject to the maximum prescribed  The Central sales-tax is collected through the agency of the State and is levied ultimately for the benefit of the States and is statutorily assigned to the States . By leaving it to  The political and economic factors which operate in this field are so powerful that the provisions with regard to penalties to be made by the State Legislature cannot but be reasonable as they would affect the levy  In Khemka's case, the High Court held that since there was no express provision in the Act permitting the levy of such penalties, the proceedings relating to the determination and recovery of  In Article 20 (1) the expression 'penalty' is used in the narrow sense as meaning a payment which has to be made or a deprivation of liberty . The word 'pen  The protection of Art. 20(1) avails only against punishment for an act which is treated as an offence which when done was not an offence . Failure to discharge a civil liability  The High Court of Madhya Pradesh has held in Central India Motors v. C.C. Sharma, Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Indore Region of Indore Anr.  An Act validating the said levy after removing constitutional deficiencies in it was passed with 232 the assent of the President in September 23, 1961 . The limited challenge mounted against the validating  It has to be presumed that all the tax has been collected by the dealers from their customers . There is also no dispute that the law required the dealers to pay the tax within the specified  Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. State of Orissa(l) is one such decision . An order levying penalty under section 48 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act