 Industrial Disputes Act was enacted to make provision for investigation and settlement of the industrial disputes . Act envisages collective bargaining, contracts between the workers' unions and management and the like which are  The suit for a decree for permanent injunction was not maintainable in the civil court as it had no jurisdiction to grant the relief or even a temporary relief . The Act did not confer any  The suit was filed in a representative capacity on behalf of the members of the derecognised 429 union by two of its members under O. I r. 8 of the Code . The  It cannot be said that remedy provided under the Industrial Disputes Act is a misnomer . The legislature did not think it fit and proper to provide a very easy and smooth remedy for  The only remedy available to the workmen concerned was the raising of an industrial dispute . South Indian Bank Ltd. v. A. R. Chacko [450BCD] South  The incentive scheme was to make extra payments at the rate of 3.5% over the basic production of 650 units upto the target of 900 on every extra production of 25 units .  Trial Court framed several issues for trial but curiously enough dropped many issues as not surviving in view of the stand taken on behalf of the plaintiffs' counsel at the time of the trial of the  The powers of the authorities deciding industrial disputes under the Act are very extensive- 435 much wider than the power of, a Civil Court while adjudicating a dispute which may be an industrial dispute  There are three classes of cases in which a liability may be established by statute . There is that class where there is a liability existing at common law, and which is only re-en  The House of Lords in the case of Barraclough v. Brown said there was no right to come to the High Court for a declaration that the applicant had a right to recover  It is difficult to call the remedy a misnomer or insufficient or inadequate for the purpose of enforcement of the right or liability created under the Act . The legislature did not think it fit  The jurisdiction of the Civil Court in India is limited to cases in which there is a right at law . The power of the Court or Chancery to make declarations of right without giving  The well-known distinction is brought about in these terms : "The appellant company are given no new right of quarrying by the Act of 1947" The special jurisdiction of the Court of  The other well- known decision of the . Privy Council is the case of . Raleigh Investment . Ltd v. Governor General in Council . Both the decisions were decided by Gajend  A doubt was being cast in the full application of the ratio of the Privy Council in Raleigh Investment Co.'s case was crystalised in the majority decision of Subba Rao, J  Madras High Court held that the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is ousted impliedly to try a case which could form subject matter of an industrial dispute collectively between the workmen and their employer  A written agreement was executed between the Engineering Mazdoor Sabha Union and the Association Union . The parties agreed to refer their cases to a Board of Arbitrators of the company . But the parties  The company had terminated the agreement dated the 14th March, 1968 under section 19(2) of the Act . During the pendency of the arbitration the 46 workmen were to remain