 International Airport Athority Act 1971-Whether an instrumentality of State- Authority called for tenders for a job-If could accept a tender not conforming to conditions in notice . Airport  4th respondents was complete and offered the highest amount as licence fee . All the other tenders were rejected because they were incomplete . The appellant filed a writ petition challenging the decision of the  It is unthinkable that in a democracy governed by the rule of law the executive Government or any of its officers should possess arbitrary power over the interests of the individual . Every action of the executive  The Government represents the executive authority of the State may act through the instrumentality or agency of . the State . The question is how to determine whether a . corporation is acting is instrumentality  The International Airport Authority Act, 1971 empowers the Central Government to constitute an authority called the International Air port Authority . The Central Government has power to divest the first respodent temporarily from  The Airport Authority is bound by the Central Government to give directions in writing to the Airport Authority on questions of policy . The standard or norm laid down by the notice was reasonable and non-  The notice stated in the clearest terms in paragraph (1) that "Sealed tenders in the prescribed form are here by invited from Registered IInd Class Hoteliers having at  The 4th respondents stated that their sole proprietor Kumaria had started his career in catering line in the year 1962 at Hotel Janpath, Delhi and gradually risen to his present position .  A. S. lrani refused to hand over possession of the sites occupied by him to the Ist respondent, even though his contract had come to an end, and continued to  The 1st respondent, being a State within the meaning of Art. 12 of the Constitution, was bound to give effect to the condition of eligibility set up by it and was not entitled  A. S. Irani's writ petition was rejected in the exercise of its discretion by the High Court . The High Court was justified in rejecting the writ petition in limine . The  We must, in the circumstances, hold that, on a proper construction, what paragraph (1) of the notice required was that only a person running a registered llnd Class hotel or  There was no statutory or administrative rule requiring the 1st respondent to give a contract only by inviting tenders . The tender of the 4th respondents was accepted and the contract was given to  The rule of law is a check against the exercise of power by the government, not by the individual . The rule was established by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1959 . It  Government is still the Government when it acts in the matter of granting largess and it cannot act arbitrarily . The law has not been slow to recognise the importance of this new kind of wealth  The Government has the absolute right to enter into contract with any one it pleases . The learned Chief Justice said that when the Government is trading with the public, the democratic form of Government  Government would obviously be subject to the same limitations in the field of constitutional and administrative law as Government itself . But the question is how to determine whether a corporation is acting as instrumentality or  It is difficult to say whether, in the absence of such control it would have been possible to say that the action of the trustees constituted State action . Thomas P. Lewis has expressed the  The modern State operates a multitude of public enterprises and discharges a host of other public functions . If the functions of the corporation are of public importance and closely related to governmental functions, it  There are several factors which may have to be considered in determining whether a corporation is an agency or instrumentality of Government . The public nature of the function, if impregnated with governmental  An ordinary individual can choose not to deal with any person . The Government cannot choose to exclude persons by discrimination . The order of black- listing deprives a person of equality of opportunity in  The Court criticises the Government for not giving any explanation as to why an offer for a large amount was not accepted by the Government . The Court held that the Government was, in the  There is no discrimination, because it is open to the Government, even as it is to a private party, to choose a person to their liking, to fulfil contracts which they wish to  The Government of Orissa did not accept any of the bids made at the auction and subsequently sold the privilege by negotiations with some other parties . The validity of clause (6) of the  Rajasthan Electricity Board v. Mohan Lal was called upon to consider whether it was an 'authority' within the meaning of the expression "other authorities" in Article 12 .  Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union v. State of Bihar(2) was a reference of an industrial dispute between the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited and the Union . The argument of the Union was that  The Court seemed to hold on The facts that the Council was not an agency of the Government and was, therefore, not an 'authority' It is (1) [[1969]  Section 21 requires the 1st respondent to submit for the approval of the Central Government a statement of the programme of its activities during the forthcoming financial year as well as its financial estimate . The  The 1st respondent was not entitled to act arbitrarily in accepting the tender of the 4th respondents, but was bound to conform to the standard or norm laid down in the notice inviting tend  The first salvo in the battle against the 4th respondents was fired by K. S. Irani, proprietor of Cafe Excelsior, who filed a suit challenging the decision  A.S. Irani was being pressed to close down his restaurant and snack bars . The High Court dismissed the appeal and confirmed the order of the High Court rejecting the writ petition .