 Y.V. Chanderrachud: Appeal against acquittal--two views of the evidence reasonably posssible . Chanderbud: High Court, whether justified in interfering  Four appeals have been filed by special leave of this Court . It was contended that the High Court had no sufficient reasons for interfering with the order of acquittal passed by the Sessions Court in  Supreme Court does not interfere with concurrent findings of fact save in exceptional circumstances . Balak Ram examined two witnesses, D.W. 7 and D. 9 to establislh his  Tribeni Sahai was a sitting Member of the U.P. Legislative Assembly, elected on the Congress, (R) ticket . Radhey is said to have been his bodyguard  Rajendra Kumar Misra is the brother-in-law of Radhey Shyam Sharma, the brother of the deceased Tribeni Sahai . Radhey was the Deputy Inspector General of  Dr. Kohli was taken to his house and it is alleged that his wife produced his licensed revolver from inside the Niwar of a cot . The Investigating Officer opened the chamber  Dr. Kohli, Dharma Pal, Raiendra Kumar Misra and two lawyers, Nawal Kishore and Sultain Ahmed came to the police station and had a long 760  The High Court accepted the evidence of Jhilmili and Ram Prakash who, according to it, were independent witnesses . Aryendra Nath is the sister's son of D  Tribeni Sahai supported a Jan Sangh candidate as against Dharam Pal who was put up by the Congress . Dr. Kohli and Banney Khan were partisans of Balak  Most of the cases described above seem to have been politically motivated . The fact that such serious charges lacked a true foundation was irrelevant to the way of life .  Jhilmili's son- in-law Sia Ram and another relative Ved Prakash were contesting the election for the membership of the Committee as candidates of Congress (  The conduct of RaJendra Kumar is highly unnatural . After the processionists dispersed and ran away he did not even try 'to find out what injuries Tribeni Sahai and Radhey  Arvendra claimed that Pearey Mian. 'Banney Khan, Dr. Kohli, Balak Ram, Kailash and Nathoo were "also" in the  The dying declaration (Ex-Ka-47) made by Tribeni Sahai at the Budaun hospital was recorded by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate Mr. Sada Ram  Dr. Nathoo, Dr. P. Kohli and Mohammad Sayeed Khan alias Banney Khan are set aside and their appeals are allowed . Nathoo is not named in the dying  Balak Ram was carrying a pistol and he fired from that pistol without provocation either from Tribeni Sahai or from Radhey . Neither of them was armed not even with a walking stick