 The appellant was a civil surgeon in the employment of the State of Punjab having joined the Punjab Civil Medical Service in 1947 . In 1956 he was posted to Jullunder where he proceeded on  Under r. 8.15 of Punjab Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules there is no restriction on the power of revocation of leave with respect to the time when it is  Civil Surgeon in the employment of the State Government had been granted leave preparatory to retirement, and subsequently, in June 1961, orders were passed by Government (1) revoking the  In the case before us it is common ground that it was the Chief Minister who was incharge of the Health Department in which the appellant was employed . We consider that to construe the  Every power vested in a public body or authority has to be used honestly, bona fide and reasonably, though the two often slide into each other . Ultra vires is an infraction of  The Court is not an appellate forum where the correctness of an order of Government could be canvassed . It has no 'Jurisdiction to substitute its own view as to the necessity  The Constitution enshrines and guarantees the rule of law and Art. 226 is designed to ensure that each and every authority in the State, including the Government, acts bona fide and within the  There was some dispute as regards the 745 salary payable to Dr. Dhillon during the period when he was with the Chief Minister . The Chief Minister complained that though several years had  The High Court heard that the orders passed in June 1961 were passed not bona fide for the purpose of conducting an inquiry into the Chief Minister's conduct but to harass and humiliate him .  There are few documents and possibly no piece of evidence which could not be tampered with, but that would certainly not be a ground on which Courts could reject evidence as inadmissible or  Surinder Singh has filed an affidavit in which he has denied that there was any operation performed on him either by the appellant or by any other . There is no documentary evidence that the appellant  In the course of this talk (No. 6) Mrs. Kairon made inquiries as to whether her son Surinder was with the appellant and this inquiry was made because she had  Surinder in his affidavit denies that there was any talk between the appellant and his mother regarding supply of medicines . Surinder also states that the tape- records referred to by the petitioner are  The allegation relates to requests made by the Chief Minister himself and the members of his family for undue favours to be shown to certain patients who were recommended for medical certificates or for special treatment  Tape-recorded conversation between Mrs. Kairon and the appellant is said to be in March 1960, but for our present purpose the date is not very material . In the tape-  Surinder has filed an affidavit in which he has denied his ownership of the automobile concern and also that Kirpa Singh was provided with board and lodging by the appellant at the instance of his  In all the earlier Confidential Reports relating to the appellant there was nothing wrong found with him and his conduct and character were not the subject of any adverse comment . It was only subsequently,  Some of the charges which are to be the subject of enquiry relate to a period long anterior to June 1961 . It is not necessary to discuss minutely as to whether the charges could  Partap Singh joined the Punjab Civil Medical Service, Class 1, in 1947 . He was trans- ferred to Jullunder as Civil Surgeon in April 1956 . He remained there  The High Court agreed with the contention for the respondent and dismissed the appellant's petition . Rule 8.15 of the 1959 rules reads: "Leave cannot be claimed as of right"  Notifications about the suspension and revocation of leave from June 3, 1961, were issued on June 3 . The order in which the two orders were issued does not affect in substance the validity  The appellant joined the Punjab Civil Medical Services, Class I (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1940, hereinafter called the Medical Rules, were in force at the  The question of retirement of a Government servant on super-annuation or otherwise is not a matter cognate to pensions . Rule 13 of the Medical rules therefore does not govern the terms of  The appellant's suspension without calling him to explain the charges first, was bad as the proceedings to suspend him were of a quasijudicial character . We are of opinion that whenever  There is nothing Corresponding to r. 5.28 of Vol. 11 of 1941 rules in Vol.11 of the 1959 rules . When the retirement of the appellant, as already held  The State of Bombay v. Saubhagchand M. Doshl(1) argued that the order of compulsory retirement amounted to an order of dismissal or removal or not  The Government has the discretion in every case, considering the nature of the alleged misconduct and other circumstances, whether a criminal prosecution should be launched or not . The Government is also free to conduct  There is no allegation that the boy suffered on account of his leaving the appellants house prior to his being cured completely . Tape recorded talks nos. 6 and 2 in April and May respectively  Cash memos for the purchase of two Singer sewing machines by Sardar Bahadur Bagh Singh, father-in-law of the appellant in July 1959 and October 1959, have been  It is alleged that the dismissal of the appeal by the High Court and the ultimate dismissal of the Government petition for special leave to the Supreme Court in October 1960 displeased the Chief  The appellant's relations with the Chief Minister could not have been bad in November 1960 as he had sought the advice of the I.G. of Prisons about his reporting to the Government  It is 'alleged for the appellant that the Chief Minister could have seen the copy of the Blitz dated January 14 at Delhi on January 13, 1961 and that he then started vind  Tape-recorded conversations between appellant and the Chief Minister and his wife were played at a Press Conference on March 29, 1961, at Chandigarh . This led to some move for  Government had not arrived at any such decision and could not have and was not bound to refuse leave by resorting to r.8.19. The rule was not mandatory with the Government