Judgement IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL NO.OF 2010 [Arising out of S.L.P.(C) No.8931 of 2007] State of Maharashtra & Ors.\-- Appellants VERSUS Sangharaj Damodar Rupawate & Ors.-- Respondents D.K.JAIN, J.:
Leave granted.2.This appeal, by special leave, filed by the State of Maharashtra and its functionaries, arises out of the judgment dated 26th April, 2007 delivered by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition No.1721 of 2004.By the impugned judgment, passed in an application under Section 96 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1973 (for short "the Code") read with Article 226 of the Constitution of India, the High Court has set aside and quashed notification dated 20th December, 2006, issued in the name of Governor of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 95 of the Code, directing forfeiture of every copy of the book captioned as "Shivaji - Hindu King in Islamic India" written by one Prof. James W. Laine.3.The three writ petitioners, who are respondents No.1, 2 and 3 herein, are respectively stated to be a well known lawyer and a public activist in the Ambedkarite movement, intended to mobilize the deprived sections of the society; (ii) a well-known film maker, whose documentaries are stated to be known the world over for their artistic finesse, conveying democratic and secular message and (iii) a social activist.Respondents No.4 to 6 impleaded as such vide this Court's order dated 29 th August, 2007 respectively are Prof. James W. Laine, the author of the book, Oxford University Press, India, the publisher through its Constituted Attorney Mr. Manzar Sayed Khan and Mr. Vinod Hansraj Goyal, proprietor of Rashtriya Printing Press, Delhi, the printer of the book.2 4.For the purpose of appreciation of the questions raised, the foundational facts may be noticed.These are:
On 28th May, 2003, respondent No.5, the publisher entered into an agreement with Oxford University Press, U.S.A.
for publishing in India a paper-bound book entitled "Shivaji - Hindu King in Islamic India" authored by Prof. James W. Laine (respondent No.4), a Professor of Religious Studies, Macalester College, U.S.A.The said book was originally published by Oxford University Press, Inc., U.S.A. As per the terms of the agreement, respondent No.5 agreed to reprint the book without any changes or deletions.In all, 803 copies of the book were published i.e.488 copies in June and 315 copies in October, 2003 and was released in July 2003 and 215 copies were sold in the month of July itself.On 10th November 2003, the publisher (respondent No.5) received a letter from four historians whereby the publisher and the author had been asked to retract the objectionable statement complained of and tender an apology.Mr. Manzar Sayed Khan, expressed regrets for the said statement and informed the objectors that instructions had been issued to all 3 his offices in India to immediately withdraw all copies of the book from circulation.