
50\. Even between the High Courts themselves another anomalous situation would arise. Those High Courts, such as Bombay, Calcutta and Madras, which are Letters Patent High Courts so to speak, would not be governed by Section 98 in view of sub-section (3) thereof, but if we were to accept Shri Viswanathans argument, High Courts like the Kerala High Court which are not established by any Letters Patent, would be so governed. This again would lay down two different rules for different sets of High Courts depending upon a wholly irrelevant circumstance  whether their Charter originated in the Letters Patent or in a statute. Here again the acceptance of Shri V. Giris argument leads to one uniform rule applying down the board to all the High Courts in this country.
51\. For the aforesaid reasons we conclude that Hemalathas case was wrongly decided and answer Question 1 referred to us by stating that Section 23 of the Travancore-Cochin High Court Act remains unaffected by the repealing provision of Section 9 of the Kerala High Court Act, and that, being in the nature of special provision vis-a-vis Section 98(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, would apply to the Kerala High Court.
52\. In view of the answer to Question 1, it is not necessary to answer Question 2. The reference is disposed of accordingly.
J.
(Anil R. Dave) J.
(Kurian Joseph) J.
(Shiva Kirti Singh) J.
(Adarsh Kumar Goel) J.
(R.F. Nariman) New Delhi;
February 25, 2016.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL NO. 201 OF 2005 PANKAJAKSHI (DEAD) THROUGH L.RS.
AND OTHERS APPELLANT (S) VERSUS WITH   CIVIL APPEAL NO. 8576 OF 2014 PULPARAMBIL VASUDEVAN APPELLANT (S) VERSUS NANGANADA TH PULPARAMBIL KURIAN, J.:
1\. I wholly agree with the excellent exposition of law by my esteemed brother Rohinton Fali Nariman, J. I have nothing to add on the reference part. However, for appropriate guidance at the quarters concerned, I feel a few observations would be contextually relevant.
2\. Legislature has thought it fit to allocate certain matters to be heard by a Single Judge and a few by a Bench of not less than two Judges, in common parlance what is known as Single Bench and Division Bench. A matter is stipulated to be heard by a Division Bench on account of the seriousness of the subject matter and for enabling two or more heads to work together on the same. Sitting in Division Bench is not as if two Single Judges sit. In Division Bench or in a Bench of larger strength, there is a lot of discussion in-between, clarifications made, situations jointly analysed and positions in law getting evolved.
3\. Under Section 98 of The Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short, the CPC), when the Judges differ in opinion on a point of law, the matter is required to be placed for opinion of the third Judge or more of other Judges as the Chief Justice of the High Court deems fit and the point of law on which a difference has arisen is decided by the majority and the appeal is decided accordingly. It is to be seen that under the proviso to Section 98 (2) of the CPC, hearing by a third Judge or more Judges is only on the point of law on which the Division Bench could not concur. There is no hearing of the appeal by the third Judge or more Judges on any other aspect. Under Section 98 (2) of the CPC, in case an appeal is heard by a Division Bench of two or more Judges, and if there is no majority and if the proviso is not attracted, the opinion of that Judge or of the equally divided strength in the Bench which concurs in a judgment following or reversing the decree appealed from, such decree shall stand confirmed.
4\. Kerala High Court Act, 1958 has provided for the powers of a Bench of two Judges under Section 4. It is clarified thereunder that if the Judges in the Division Bench are of opinion that the decision involves a question of law, the Division Bench may order that the matter or question of law be referred to a Full Bench. Needless to say, it should be a question of law on which there is no binding precedent.
5\. Under Section 23 of the Travancore-Cochin High Court Act, 1125, if the Division Bench disagrees either on law or facts, the Chief Justice is required to refer the matter or matters of disagreement for the opinion of another Judge and the case will be decided on the opinion of the majority hearing the case.
6\. Under The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, the Cr.PC), the position is slightly different. Section 392 reads as follows:
392. Procedure when Judges of Court of Appeal are equally divided.-When an appeal under this Chapter is heard by a High Court before a Bench of Judges and they are divided in opinion, the appeal, with their opinions, shall be laid before another Judge of that Court, and that Judge, after such hearing as he thinks fit, shall deliver his opinion, and the judgment or order shall follow that opinion:
Provided that if one of the Judges constituting the Bench, or, where the appeal is laid before another Judge under this section, that Judge, so requires, the appeal shall be re-heard and decided by a larger Bench of Judges.
7\. The emerging position is that there is no uniformity or clarity with regard to the Judge strength in the event of difference of opinion, and according to me, it has affected the purpose for which the matters are required to be heard by a strength of more than one Judge, be it a Division Bench or Full Bench (Larger Bench).
8\. Under the Travancore-Cochin High Court Act, 1125, Section 23 enables the Chief Justice to refer for the opinion of another Judge, the matter or matters on which the Division Bench has disagreed either on law or on facts and the appeal will be ultimately decided on the view taken by that Judge sitting and hearing the appeal alone.
9\. Under Section 392 of the Cr.PC, the situation again is different. In case, the Division Bench is divided in their opinion, the appeal with the opinions should be laid before another Judge of that Court and the appeal will be decided clearly on the basis of the opinion rendered by that Judge hearing the matter sitting alone. However, the proviso under Section 392 of the Cr.PC enables any one of the Judges of the Division Bench or the third Judge to order the appeal to be heard by a larger Bench of Judges.
10\. The coram is not dealt with in the CPC or the Cr.PC. It is stipulated by the respective High Court Acts. When the High Court Act provides for an appeal to be heard by a Division Bench in situations where Section 98 (2) without proviso operates, it virtually becomes a decision of the Single Judge since the differing view is only to be ignored. When the Judges hearing the appeal differ in opinion on a point of law, under the proviso, the said point of law has to be heard by one or more of other Judges and the appeal be decided according to the opinions of the majority of the Judges who have heard the appeal, including at the initial stage. In such situations also, unless the Chief Justice decides otherwise, the opinion on the point of law is formed only by one Judge, the third Judge. This position is actually against the very principle of reference on difference.
Reference is always made to a larger coram. Not only that, when two judicial minds sitting together could not concur, that difficulty is to be resolved, ideally, if not on common sense, not by a third one, but by a Bench of larger coram.
11\. In my humble view, if the purpose behind the requirement of a matter to be heard by a Bench of not less than two Judges is to be achieved, in the event of the two Judges being unable to agree either on facts or on law, the matters should be heard by a Bench of larger strength. Then only the members of the Bench of such larger strength would be able to exchange the views, discuss the law and together appreciate the various factual and legal positions. The conspectus of the various provisions, in my view, calls for a comprehensive legislation for handling such situations of a Bench being equally divided in its opinion, either on law or on facts, while hearing a case which is otherwise required to be heard by a Bench of not less than two Judges, both civil and criminal. It is for the High Court and the Legislature of the State concerned to take further steps in that regard.
J.
(KURIAN JOSEPH) New Delhi;
February 25, 2016.
\-----------------------  In fact, even the PEPSU Ordinance which governed the princely states of Punjab and which had set up a High Court for such states, also contained a provision similar to Clause 26 of the Letters Patent. Clause 56 of this PEPSU Ordinance stated as follows:
Clause 56  Difference of opinion between two judges  In all appeals or other proceedings heard by two judges, if there is a difference of opinion between them, each judge shall record his separate opinion and the case shall be laid for hearing before a third judge and the decision of the Court shall be in accordance with the opinion of such third judge.