of the Constitution prohibits discrimination against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.
Section 17 to 19 recognise general right to every qualified Hindu to claim appointment as trustee. Section 16 intends to remove discrimination on grounds of heredity which otherwise is violative of Article 15(1). Article 13 declares such inconsistent custom as void. The predecessor Act 1966 recognised customary right, which the legislature has power to take away such recognition and order every eligible Hindu to be considered for appointment as trustee in the manner prescribed by law. Hereditary principle being inconsistent with Article 15(1), the legislature thought it fit to abolish the same. Moreover, by reason of hereditary nature of succession to trusteeship or mutawalli etc.
inherently visited with mismanagement or misappropriation of the property of the charitable or Hindu religious institutions or endowments, the object of the endowment etc.
thereby getting defeated. With a view to remedy the same and to effectuate proper and efficient management and governance of charitable and Hindu religious institutions and endowments, the Act was enacted. Instead of management by a single person Chapter III introduced in Sections 15, 17, 18 and 19 as a composite scheme prescribing disqualifications and qualifications for trusteeship, procedure for appointment of trustees and appointment and constitution of the board of trustees so as to have collective proper and efficient administration and governance of the institution and endowment. The abolition of the right to hereditary trusteeship, therefore, cannot be declared to be unconstitutional.
Chapter III relates to administration and management of charitable and Hindu religious institutions and endowments, as its heading indicates. By operation of Section 14 all properties belonging to or given or endowed to a charitable or religious situation or endowment shall vest in that institution. A scheme has been evolved therein first to abolish the hereditary right in trusteeship. That has been accomplished under Section 16. As a corollary, the management and governance was entrusted to the trustees and the board of trustees as a representative body. It is already held that the scheme for appointment of the trustees and constitution of the board of trustees is to effectuate the legislative object of efficient and proper administration and management of charitable and Hindu religious institutions and endowments. The Act entrusted the collective responsibility to the board of trustees appointed under Section 15. Section 15 makes a distinction in respect of the charitable or religious institutions or endowments covered by clauses (a) to (c) of Section 6 as distinct classes. In respect of the charitable or religious institutions or endowments covered by clause (a) of Section 6 whose annual income is Rs. 10 lakhs and above, the board of trustees consisting of 9 persons shall be appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 15. The appointing authority of such board of trustees shall be the Government.
In case the income does not exceed Rs.10 lakhs, the Commissioner has been given power to appoint board of trustees consisting of 7 persons. In respect of charitable or religious institutions or endowments included in the list published under clause (b) of Section 6, the Deputy Commissioner having jurisdiction has been empowered to constitute a board of trustees consisting of 7 persons as envisaged under sub-section (2) of Section 15. In the case of charitable or religious institutions or endowments included in the list published under clause (c) of Section 6, the Assistant Commissioner having jurisdiction has been empowered to appoint trustees and constitute board of trustees consisting of five persons. In the case of charitable or religious institutions or endowment covered by clause (c) of Section 6, obviously based upon the factual matrix, in the interest of the institution or endowment or for any other sufficient cause after recording reasons in writing, the Assistant Commissioner is empowered by the proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 15 to appoint a single trustee to a charitable or religious institution or endowment instead of appointing and constituting a board of trustees. It could be seen that the scheme of appointment of the trustees and appointment and constitution of the board of the trustees being an integral part and having evolved policy to entrust collective responsibility of management and administration of charitable and religious institution or endowment instead of entrusting such responsibility to a single individual, Section 15 was brought on statute to effectuate the said policy. The legislative competence is not questioned. The policy involved cannot be faulted nor can it be assailed as unconstitutional when it seeks to achieve a public purpose, viz., secular management of the charitable or religious institutions or endowments to effectuate efficient and proper management and governance of the said institutions. Accordingly, we are of the considered view that abolition of the hereditary right in trusteeship is unexceptionable, it being a part of due administration, which is a secular activity. Being a permissible law under Article 25(2), it is not violative of Article 25(1) of the Constitution. It cannot further be held that either Section 15 or Section 16 of the Act is ultra vires the Constitution.
But immediate question is whether taking away of the management and vesting the same in the board of non- hereditary trustees, constituted under Section 15, is valid in law. It is seen that the perennial and perpetual source to establish or create any religious or charitable institution or endowment of a specific endowment is the charitable disposition of a pious persons or other benevolent motivating factors, but to the benefit of indeterminate number of people having the common religious faith and belief which the founder espouses. Even a desire to perpetuate the memory of an philanthropist or a pious person or a member of the family or founder himself may be the motive to establish a religious or charitable institution or endowment or specific endowment. Total deprivation of its establishment and registration and take over of such bodies by the State would dry up such sources or acts of pious or charitable disposition and act as disincentive to the common detriment.
Hindus are majority in population and Hinduism is a major religion. While Articles 25 and 26 granted religious freedom to minority religions like Islam, Christianity and Judaism, they do not intend to deny the same guarantee to Hindus. Therefore, protection under Articles 25 and 26 is available to the people professing Hindu religion, subject to the law therein. The right to establish a religious and charitable institution is a part of religious belief or faith and, though law made under clause (2) of Article 25 may impose restrictions on the exercise of that right, the right to administer and maintain such institution cannot altogether be taken away and vested in other party; more particularly, in the officers of a secular Government. The administration of religious institution or endowment or specific endowment being a secular activity, it is not an essential part of religion and, therefore, the legislature is competent to enact law, as in Part III of the Act, regulating the administration and governance of the religious or charitable institutions or endowment. They are not part of religious practices or customs. The State does not directly undertake their administration and expend any public money for maintenance and governance thereof. Law regulates appropriately for efficient management or administration or governance of charitable and Hindu religious institutions or endowments or specific endowments, through its officers or officers appointed under the Act.
The question then is whether legislative declaration of the need for maintenance, administration and governance of all charitable and Hindu religious institutions or endowments or specific endowments and taking over the same and vesting the management in a trustee or board of trustees is valid in law. It is true, as rightly contended by Shri P.P. Rao, that the legislature acting on the material collected by Justice Challa Kondaiah Commission amended and repealed the predecessor Act 1966 and brought the Act on statute. Section 17 of the predecessor Act of 1966 had given power to a hereditary trustee to be the chairman of the board of non-hereditary trustee. Though abolition of hereditary right in trusteeship under Section 16 has already been upheld, the charitable and religious institution or endowment owes its existence to the founder or members of the family who would resultantly evince greater and keener responsibility and interest in its proper and efficient management and governance. The autonomy in this behalf is an assurance to achieve due fulfillment of the objective with which it was founded unless, in due course, foul in its management is proved. Therefore, so long as it is properly and efficiently managed, he is entitled to due freedom of management in terms of the deed of endowment or established practice or usage. In case a board of trustees is constituted, the right to preside over the board given to the founder or any member of his family would generate feeling to actively participate, not only as a true representative of the source, but the same also generate greater influence in proper and efficient management of the charitable or religious institution or endowment. Equally, it enables him to persuade other members to follow the principles, practices, tenets, customs and sampradayams of the founder of the charitable or religious institution or endowment or specific endowment. Mere membership along with others, many a times, may diminish the personality of the member of the family. Even in case some funds are needed for repairs, improvement, expansion etc., the board headed by the founder or his family member may raise funds from the public to do the needful, while the executive officer, being a Government servant, would be handicapped or in some cases may not even show interest or inclination in that behalf.
With a view, therefore, to effectuate the object of the religious or charitable institution or endowment o r specific endowment and to encourage establishment of such institutions in future, making the founder or in his absence a member of his family to be a chairperson and to accord him major say in the management and governance would be salutary and effective. The founder or a member of his family would, thereby, enable to effectuate the proper, efficient and effective management and governance of charitable or religious institution or endowment or specific endowment thereof in future. It would add incentive to establish similar institutions.
Keeping this pragmatic perspective in consideration, the question that emerges is: whether Sections 17 and 29(5) are valid in law. Reading down the provisions of an Act is a settled principle of interpretation so as to sustain their constitutionality, as well as for effectuation of the purpose of the statute. With the above in mind, we may examine the validity of Section 17 and 29(5). These statutory provisions are grounded on the findings of the report of Challa Kondaiah Commission, which indicated mismanagement and misutilisation of funds of charitable and Hindu religious institutions and endowments in a big way.
This is, however, a general finding; and we are prepared to agree with the learned counsel for the petitioners that all the charitable and religious institutions may not be painted with the same brush. We have no doubt that there would be charitable or religious institutions in the State which are neither mismanaged nor there is misutilisation of funds.
Even so, if the legislature acted on the general findings recorded by the Commissioner, due weightage has to be given to the same. Our view that the board of trustees should be headed either by the founder or a member of his family, would go a long way in seeing the fulfillment of the wishes and desires of the founder.
Sections 17 and 29(5) cannot, therefore, be faulted.
Whatever rigor these sections have, would be duly get softened by the requirement of the board being headed by the founder or any of his family members, as the case may be.
Subject to this rider, we uphold the validity of these two Sections.
The question then is: whether abolition of the emoluments under Section 144 is unconstitutional? It is seen that the object of the Act is to prevent misuse of the trust for personal benefit. It is founded on the report of the aforesaid Commission. It is a matter of legislative wisdom and policy. It is not the contention that the legislature has no competence to abolish the system of payment. As stated earlier, it is a legislative judgment reflective of the will of the sovereign people. The Court would give respect and primacy to the legislative judgment, rather than to judicial conclusion. So, we are of the considered view that Section 144 is not unconstitutional in relation to its application to charitable and religious institutions and endowments. The scope and ambit of Section 144 would be fully discussed in Archaka cases, i.e., W.P. No. 638/87 & batch.
So, we uphold the validity of Sections 15, 16, 17, 29(5) and 144, subject to the rider mentioned earlier qua Sections 17 and 29(5). The writ petitions and the transfer cases are disposed of accordingly. No costs.