G. S. Singhvi, J.1\.Leave granted.2\.In these appeals prayer has been made for setting aside the order of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court whereby the applications filed by the appellants for condonation of delay in filing appeals under Section 35 of the [Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999] (for short, `the Act') were dismissed along with the appeals filed against order dated 2.8.2007 passed by the Appellate Tribunal for Foreign Exchange (for short, `the Appellate Tribunal').Background facts
3\.On an information received from the Reserve Bank of India that M/s.Classic Credit Ltd. and M/s.Panther Fincap and Management Services Ltd. had taken loan of 25 lakh shares each of DSQ Industries Ltd. on 1.3.2011 from M/s.Greenfield Investment Ltd, Mauritius and the Indus Ind Bank Ltd with whom M/s.Greenfield Investment Ltd. was maintaining NRE Account had informed that records did not indicate any such transaction, the Directorate of Enforcement, Mumbai conducted enquiries from different sources including Securities and Exchange Board of India, Shri Ketan Parekh, M/s.Integrated Enterprises (I) Ltd., Chennai and Indsec Securities and Finance Ltd.Thereafter, 3 show cause notice dated 23.9.2004 was issued to M/s.Greenfield Investments Ltd., Mauritius, Shri Pravin Guwalewala, Mauritius, Smt.Neena Guwalewala, Mauritius, Shri A. K. Sen, Mauritius, M/s.Classic Credit Ltd., Mumbai, M/s.Panther Fincap and Management Services Ltd., Mumbai, Shri Ketan Parekh, Shri Kartik K. Parekh, Shri Kirit Kumar N. Parekh and Shri Navinchandra Parekh for taking action against them for contravention of the provisions of the Act.After hearing the noticees, the Special Director of Enforcement, Mumbai (for short, `the Special Director') passed order dated 30.1.2006 and, whereby he held that some of the noticees had violated Sections 3(d) and 6(3)(e) of the Act and imposed penalty of Rs.40 crores on M/s.Classic Credit Ltd.; Rs.40 crores on M/s.Panther Fincap and Management Services Ltd.; Rs.75 crores on M/s.Greenfield Investments Ltd.; Rs.80 crores on Shri Shri Ketan Parekh; Rs.12 crores on Shri Kartik K. Parekh; Rs.60 crores on Shri Pravin Guwalewala and Rs.20 crores on Shri A.K.Sen with a direction that they shall deposit the amount within 45 days from the date of receipt of the order.4\.The appellants challenged the aforesaid order by filing appeals under Section 19 of the Act.They also filed applications under Rule 10 of the Foreign Exchange Management (Adjudication Proceedings and Appeal) Rules, 2000 read with Section 19 (1) of the Act for dispensing with the requirement of 4 deposit of the amount of penalty.In paragraphs 4 to 8 of the application filed by him, Shri Ketan V. Parekh made the following averments:
"4\.The applicant submits that no case is made out against the applicant as Section 3 (d) of the Act is only attracted in case of a transaction in a foreign currency/foreign security.The appellants case does not attract the provision of Section 3 (d) of the Act.5\.