SCR 233 (21 December 1956)
21/12/1956 BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.
BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.
JAGANNADHADAS, B.
AIYYAR, T.L.VENKATARAMA SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.
DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR 397 [[1956] INSC 86]; [1957 SCR 233 ] Income-tax-Transfer of cases-Discretion vested in the Com- missioner or the Board,if discriminatory and violative of fundamental rights-Omnibus wholesale order of transfer, if constitutionally valid-Indian Income-tax Act(XI of 1922), as amended by Amending Act XXVI of 1956, ss.5(7A), 64(1), (2)- Constitution of India, Arts.I4, 19(1)(g).These petitions on behalf of the assessees raised the common question as to the constitutionality of s. 5(7-A) of the Indian Income-tax Act, which was raised but not decided by this Court in Bidi Supply Co. V. The Union of India, [[1956] INSC 23]; [(1956) S. C. R.267.]Reliance was placed on the observations of Bose, J. in his Minority judgment in that case and it was contended that the section read with the explanation, subsequently added to it as a result of that decision,conferred arbitrary and uncontrolled powers of transfer on the Income-tax Commissioner and the Central Board of Revenue, was discriminatory and violative of the provisions of Art.14 and imposed an unreasonable restriction on the right to carry on trade or business in contravention of Art.19(1)(g) of the Constitution.It was further contended that the omnibus wholesale orders of transfer made without any reference to any particular case or without any limitation as to time were inconvenient and discriminatory and ran counter to the majority judgment in that case.The contention of the Central Board of Revenue, supported by affidavits filed on its behalf, was that the section was intended to minimize administrative inconvenience, there was no discrimination after transfer because the same relevant provisions of the Act as applied to others similarly situated, were applied after the transfer and any resulting inconvenience to the assessee was sought to be minimised by transferring his case either to the nearest area or, where that was not feasible, by examining his accounts or evidence, if required by him, at a place suited to his convenience and that the wholesale omnibus orders of transfer were covered by the explanation:
Held, that s. 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax Act was a measure of administrative convenience, was constitutionally valid and did not infringe any of the fundamental rights conferred by Arts.14 and (19)(g) of the Constitution and the orders of transfer in question were saved by the explanation: to that section and.were constitutionally valid.