1968 SC 1267; 1968 (3) SCR 34 (5 February 1968)
05/02/1968 HIDAYATULLAH, M.
HIDAYATULLAH, M.
BACHAWAT, R.S.HEGDE, K.S.CITATION: 1968 AIR 1267 1968 SCR (3) 34 Practice and Procedure--Criminal appeal--Offence of cheating--Offer by accused to return money if sentence was reduced--High Court willing to consider-- Propriety.The three appellants were a partner, munim and clerk of the R. R. firm and were closely related to one another.In the course of their dealings with the J. R. firm, who were Bankers and Commission Agents, the appellants were alleged to have, inflated the invoices of goods, drawn up exaggerated hundies, and borrowed money from the J. R. firm on the security of such invoices and hundies.The J. R.
firm came to know the facts when the hundies were not honoured, but before the hundies were tendered to the R. R.
firm, its partners were declared insolvent.The appellants were charged with the offence of cheating the J. R. firm.In the High Court, the partner offered to pay his share of the losses of the J. R. firm if the sentence passed on him by the trial court was reduced.The High Court adjourned the appeal to enable him to deposit the money but did not reduce the sentence though it recovered the fine imposed from the money deposited.in appeal to this Court it was contended that : (1) there was no evidence against the clerk; (2) the High Court should have reduced the sentence; and (3) the partner and munim would pay to the J. R. firm the amounts wrongly realised by them and this Court may reduce the sentence.HELD : (1) As regards the clerk there was nothing to show that be took part in the negotiations with the J. R. firm, or that any representation was made by him to that firm, or that he made the inflated invoices and hundies.The only evidence against him was (a) that he wrote some invoices which were not inflated, (b) that he took them to the J. R.
firm, and (c) that he drew up some, pay-in-slips on behalf of the J. R. firm.In the absence of a charge of conspiracy, the evidence was not relevant and the clerk could not he held guilty of the offence of cheating.[38A-F] (2)It is very wrong for courts to enter into a bargain with the accused by which money is recovered for the complainant through their agency.Offences should be tried and punished according to the guilt of the accused, and if any leniency is to be shown in the sentence it should be on the facts of the case.The High Court should not have agreed to consider the question of sentence and the offer of the accused in this Court could not also be accepted.[39 E--G] (3) The sentences were however reduced, because, but for the supervening insolvency the accused might have paid back the money as they had done in the past.[39 H] CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeals Nos.99 to 104 of 1964.