1975 SCR 214; 1975 (2) SCC 236 (21 April 1975) GOSWAMI, P.K.GOSWAMI, P.K.ALAGIRISWAMI, A.
BHAGWATI, P.N.CITATION: 1975 AIR [1259 1975 SCR 214] 1975 SCC (2) 236 CITATOR INFO :
D [1989 SC 606] (8) Arbitration Act, s. 30 (a)-Scope of.For the construction of three overhead reservoirs tenders were invited.The appellant was the successful tenderer for the work.The notification inviting tender,., gave a description of the soils at the places of constructions.Sometime later, however, the Research Institute of the State Government recommended a different mode of foundation in respect of one reservoir and the department accordingly gave instruction to the appellant to adopt the process recommended by the Research Institute.The appellant executed the work in accordance with the recommendations of the Research Institute and claimed a higher payment on the ground that the work done by him was not included in the original design because when he submitted his tender he assumed the site conditions to be as represented in the Schedule to the notification.The Department, having refused the claim.the dispute was referred to Arbitration under cl.34 of the tender notification.The Chief Engineer who was the, sole Arbitrator gave a speaking order based on an examination of the documents.The High Court set aside the judgment of the Subordinate Judge and restored the order of the Arbitrator.On appeal to this Court it was contended that the Arbitrator was, guilty of legal misconduct in conducting the proceedings in that the material documents were absolutely ignored by the Arbitrator, resulting in miscarriage of justice.Allowing the appeal.HELD : Under s. 30(a) of the Arbitration Act an award can be set aside when an Arbitrator has misconducted himself or the proceedings.Misconduct under s. 30(a) has not a connotation of moral lapse.It Comprises legal misconduct which is complete if the Arbitrator on the face of the award arrives at an inconsistent conclusion even on his own finding or arrives at a decision by ignoring very material documents which throw abundant light on the controversy to help a just and fair decision.It is in this sense that the Arbitrator has misconducted the proceedings in this case.In the instant case the two documents which the Arbitrator failed to consider were material documents to arrive at a just and fair decision to resolve the controversy between the Department and the appellant.In the background of the controversy in this case even if the Department did not produce these documents before the Arbitrator it was incumbent upon him to get hold of all the relevant documents including those two documents for the purpose of a just decision.The award, therefore, suffers from a manifest error apparent ex facie.[218ABC] CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL No.1485 OF 1974 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated 29-1-73 of the Kerala High Court in A.S. No.357 of 1972.S.V.Gupte, C. J. Balakrishnan and A. S. Nambiar, for the appellant.215 T. S. Krishnamurthy Iyer anti K. R. Nambiar, for the respondents.